URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMib2h0dHBzOi8vd3d3LnB1cmR1ZS5lZHUvbmV3c3Jvb20vcmVsZWFzZXMvMjAyNC9RMS9leHBvc3VyZS10by1jaWdhcmV0dGUtc21va2UtaW5jcmVhc2VzLWNhbmNlci1yaXNrLWluLWRvZ3MuaHRtbNIBAA?oc=5
Title: Exposure to cigarette smoke increases cancer risk in dogs - purdue.edu
Text: A long-term study following Scottish terriers indicates cigarette smoke exposure leads to a sixfold increase in the risk of bladder cancer

WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Dogs are humans’ best friends. Need to quickly locate a bomb? There’s a dog for that. Can’t see very well? There’s a dog for that. Searching for a lost hiker in the mountains or survivors in an earthquake, diagnosing illness, comforting the bereft — there are dogs for every need.

They are even helping humans track down the causes of cancer. A new study links cigarette smoke exposure to an exponentially higher rate of bladder cancer in Scottish terriers. By assessing individual dogs and studying their medical history, scientists are beginning to untangle the question of who gets cancer and why, and how best to detect, treat and prevent cancer.

Led by Purdue veterinarian Deborah Knapp, a team of researchers tracked a cohort of 120 Scottish terriers over a three-year period. In a paper published in The Veterinary Journal, they found that dogs exposed to cigarette smoke were six times more likely to develop bladder cancer than those that were not. Knapp is a Purdue Distinguished Professor of Comparative Oncology, the Dolores L. McCall Professor of Veterinary Medicine, director of Purdue’s Evan and Sue Ann Werling Comparative Oncology Research Center, and a program co-leader in the Purdue Institute for Cancer Research.

“Cancer is a combination of what you are born with — your genetics — and what you are exposed to — your environment,” Knapp said. “In this case, we studied these dogs for years at a time, and then we went back and asked, ‘What was different between those that developed cancer and those that did not develop cancer? What were the risk factors?’”

Additional Information

Scottish terriers, famous for being presidential pets to presidents George W. Bush and Franklin D. Roosevelt, “Jock” in Disney’s “Lady and the Tramp,” and the cutest Monopoly game token, are also notable for a less cheerful reason: They develop bladder cancer at a rate 20 times higher than that of other dog breeds. And when Scotties and other dogs develop bladder cancer, it is often an aggressive form similar to muscle invasive bladder cancer in humans.

Knapp’s team studied 120 Scotties, assessing their health, environment, food, activity, locations and anything they could think of that might affect their cancer risk. The goal was both to figure out what could prevent a heartbreaking and often fatal cancer in this breed, but also to use that information to see what might affect cancer in other dogs and even humans. Dogs make an excellent study species because they live alongside humans, sharing food, bedding, housing, atmosphere and almost everything else.

“We know that Scotties’ genetics play a huge role in making them vulnerable to cancer,” Knapp said. That strong genetic signal tied to cancer helps researchers isolate other factors that affect the likelihood of any dog, or human, getting cancer, and to do so with smaller numbers of dogs. “If we were to do this study with mixed breeds of dogs, it would take hundreds and hundreds of dogs to uncover this same risk, which is probably there, just more difficult to discern because those dogs are not already inclined genetically to get bladder cancer.”

The researchers, with the help of Purdue alumna, veterinarian and Scottish terrier breed champion Marcia Dawson, wanted to study cancer in Scotties to help the dogs themselves and for what that research might reveal about canine and human risk factors overall.

When a dog (or human) is exposed to tobacco smoke, either by breathing it or by licking clothes saturated with the scent, their body takes up the chemicals in the smoke and eliminates them through the urine. This leads to cancer in the urinary tract, but also offers a way to assess smoke exposure. The researchers analyzed the dogs’ urine for a nicotine metabolite, cotinine, and its presence indicated the dog had been exposed to significant amounts of tobacco smoke.

Any time tobacco smoke is present in the same room as a dog, the dog breathes in the smoke. However, some dogs also had cotinine in their urine when their owners did not smoke. In that case, the dog could have been exposed away from the home. Or it may be that their owners visited places where others were smoking and returned home with smoke on their clothes.

“If someone goes out to a smoky concert or party, then comes home and their dog hops up on their lap to snuggle with them, the dog can be exposed to the particulate material in smoke through the person’s clothing,” Knapp said.

The results are not all black and white. Not all the dogs who were around smokers got cancer, and some dogs who were not around the smoke still got cancer. This is also true in humans. Half of human bladder cancer is due to smoking, but not all smokers develop bladder cancer. This discovery gives the Purdue team the opportunity to study how the combined effects of the genetics inherited from the parents plus environmental exposures lead to cancer.

Knapp stresses that this discovery is a new one. Dog owners, who almost universally want the best for their dog and wish their dog would live to be 100, certainly did not knowingly put their dogs at risk of cancer by smoking around them. However, with this new information, they may be able to better protect their pets going forward.

In another interesting finding, the researchers did not uncover a link between lawn chemicals and bladder cancer, which had been found in previous studies. “That’s likely because we are working with pet owners who are aware of the risk of lawn chemicals, so they took precautions to keep the dogs safe, like not treating parts of the lawn where the dog tends to be or keeping the dogs off the lawn for longer,” Knapp said. “That is encouraging! People love their pets. There are people taking steps to keep their dogs healthier.”

That new and encouraging result means there are further things humans can do to protect dogs. They can reduce the amount of smoke around the dog by quitting smoking or by smoking outside away from the dog and changing clothes before they come back inside from a smoky environment and snuggling their dog.

“What we hope pet owners will take from this is that if they can reduce the exposure of their dogs to smoke, that can help the dogs’ health,” Knapp said. “We hope they stop smoking altogether, both for their health and so they will continue to be around for their dogs, but any steps to keep smoke from the dogs will help.”

The study was funded by the National Institutes of Health’s National Cancer Institute, the Scottish Terrier Club of America and gifts made to Purdue University for canine bladder cancer research.

About Purdue University

Purdue University is a public research institution with excellence at scale. Ranked among top 10 public universities and with two colleges in the top four in the United States, Purdue discovers and disseminates knowledge with a quality and at a scale second to none. More than 105,000 students study at Purdue across modalities and locations, with 50,000 in person on the West Lafayette campus. Committed to affordability and accessibility, Purdue’s main campus has frozen tuition 13 years in a row. See how Purdue never stops in the persistent pursuit of the next giant leap, including its first comprehensive urban campus in Indianapolis, the new Mitchell E. Daniels, Jr. School of Business, and Purdue Computes, at https://www.purdue.edu/president/strategic-initiatives.

Writer/Media contact: Brittany Steff, bsteff@purdue.edu

Source: Deborah Knapp, knappd@purdue.edu
Fake_probability: 0.000152211869135499
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMieGh0dHBzOi8vbmV3cy51Y3NiLmVkdS8yMDIzLzAyMTE3NC9kb2dzLWNhbi1kZXRlY3QtY292aWQtMTktaW5mZWN0aW9ucy1mYXN0ZXItYW5kLW1vcmUtYWNjdXJhdGVseS1jb252ZW50aW9uYWwtdGVjaG5vbG9nedIBAA?oc=5
Title: Dogs can detect COVID-19 infections faster and more accurately than conventional technology, demonstrating ... - The UCSB Current
Text: It’s an idea that has finally gained scientific consensus: Dogs can be a faster, more precise, less expensive — not to mention friendlier — method of detecting COVID-19 than even our best current technology. A growing number of studies over the last two or so years has highlighted the power of dogs in detecting the stealthy virus and its variants, even when they are obscured by other viruses, like those from common colds and flu.

“It went from four papers to 29 peer-reviewed studies — that includes more than 400 scientists from over 30 countries and 31,000 samples,” said UC Santa Barbara Distinguished Professor Emeritus Tommy Dickey, who with collaborator Heather Junqueira of BioScent, Inc., gathered the recent massive number of findings into a review published in the Journal of Osteopathic Medicine.

From their rigorous survey of exclusively peer-reviewed studies published by traditional academic publishers covering both field and clinical experiments, Dickey and Junqueira assert that the collective research demonstrates that trained scent dogs are “as effective and often more effective” than the antigen tests we’re keeping handy at home, as well as the gold-standard reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests deployed in clinics and hospitals. Not only can dogs detect the SARS-CoV-2 virus faster, they can do so in a non-intrusive manner, without the environmental impact that comes with single-use plastics.
Fake_probability: 0.8445507287979126
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiTmh0dHBzOi8vd3d3LmNvbG9yYWRvLmVkdS9ob25vcnMvMjAyMy8xMi8yNy93aGF0LXdlcmUtd2F0Y2hpbmctcmVzZXJ2YXRpb24tZG9nc9IBAA?oc=5
Title: What We're Watching: Reservation Dogs | Arts and Sciences Honors Program - University of Colorado Boulder
Text: I recently finished watching the show “Reservation Dogs” on Hulu, and I can’t recommend it highly enough. The series runs through the universal themes of family, community, love, and loss from the perspective of four young Native Americans, their friends and family on a Reservation in Oklahoma. I’m not very familiar with Indigenous culture, and representations of Indigenous peoples in TV and movies are uncommon and often heavily stereotyped, so I was very excited to see how this show might be different. Created by Sterlin Harjo, who is a member of the Seminole Nation, and Taika Waititi, who is of Māori descent, the show managed to avoid the usual clichés and tropes, probably because all the writers and directors are Indigenous, as are nearly all the cast and production team. The show balances heavy themes with just enough humor and tenderness, and I’m not exaggerating when I say I both laughed and cried while watching nearly every episode.

The show follows four Indigenous teenage friends who decide to call themselves the “Reservation Dogs” as a play on one of their favorite movies. Bear, Elora, Willie Jack, and Cheese are trying to get to California from their home in rural western Oklahoma, and we follow their misadventures as they figure out how to make their dream a reality. Their fifth friend, Daniel, died before the timeline of the series begins, and heading to California was originally Daniel’s idea. So, the Res Dogs are heading there to honor their lost friend.

The first season focuses on exposition, giving the audience a view into contemporary Reservation life that I found informative and enlightening. The fictional town of Okern has its share of poverty and lack of social services that we often hear about on Reservations, yet the town is also beautiful, surrounded by strikingly lovely forest, and people are all portrayed with dignity and depth. Issues like substance abuse and structural poverty are present but do not overpower or predominate the narrative or the setting. Native words are peppered in with contemporary English and the universal idioms of teens across America. We also see how Native American spirituality pervades Reservation life: people see visions of ancestors and often have conversations with them, funerals have special traditions, supernatural beings are main characters, and people share superstitions not often seen outside of Indigenous culture.

In preparation for their trip west, the Res Dogs sell meat pies in front of the Indian Health Clinic, visit a reclusive uncle, prepare for the return of Bear’s famous dad, go hunting with family, and take a Driver’s License exam that turns into a car chase. Throughout it all, the pain left by the death of their friend is still felt. The final episode surprises with a disaster that throws a wrench in the Res Dogs’ plans but also shows them how the community can come together in the face of adversity.

The second season focuses more on relationships and challenges to those relationships. After the disaster at the end of Season 1, the Res Dogs have splintered apart. Elora and a new friend decide to run to California without the rest of the crew, encountering danger and grace along the way. Willie Jack and Cheese work with some of the elders to break a curse, and Bear gets a real job as a roofer. Difficult themes are again approached with humor and tenderness, including the death of a close elder, an arrest, time in a group home, overt cultural appropriation, a “decolonization” youth retreat, accidental ingestion of hallucinogens, white supremacists, and the return of a supernatural being. With some help from medicine people both present and ancestral, Willie Jack works to get the crew get back together, and by the last episode of the season, the Res Dogs finally take their trip out West to honor their lost friend, Daniel.

After completing the second season, it seemed to me like the show had already tied up all loose ends. What more the show could bring to its third and final season? Thankfully, the content was just as good, if not better, than the first two seasons. The final season continues the development of the four main characters as they find their way into adulthood, with additional focus on issues of kinship and community against a backdrop of structural disadvantage and intergenerational trauma. Across its ten episodes, the crew travels back from California, Bear has a solo journey, Elora learns about her parents and decides whether to go to college, and Willie Jack finds her destiny as a medicine person. This season tackles the grave topics of Indian Boarding Schools across the generations, dispossession of lands and culture, ancestral healing knowledge, and the unique traditions of a Native funeral. We also see characters struggling with mental illness, feeling like an outsider among friends, confronting whiteness and Indigenous identity, and the tension between seeking one’s fortune abroad versus staying home with one’s primary community.

Like finishing a beloved novel, I felt so sad after watching the last episode of Reservation Dogs. It was hard to say goodbye to these characters I have gotten to know so well and grown so fond of. And yes, I found myself crying once again. 10/10 I would absolutely recommend.
Fake_probability: 0.9999042749404907
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiS2h0dHBzOi8vd3d3LnZ1bHR1cmUuY29tL2FydGljbGUvZ2FyeS1mYXJtZXItcmVzZXJ2YXRpb24tZG9ncy1pbnRlcnZpZXcuaHRtbNIBAA?oc=5
Title: Gary Farmer Talks 'Reservation Dogs' and 'Powwow Highway' - Vulture
Text: Photo: Shane Brown/FX

Much like Uncle Brownie, the shambling, warmhearted eccentric he played for three seasons on Sterlin Harjo’s Reservation Dogs, Gary Farmer takes the long view of things and rarely turns down the chance to be funny about it. Even when the occasion is as somber as a funeral — like the send-off for Dogs itself — Brownie’s droll one-liners and stealthy bits of wisdom, delivered via his signature stoner deadpan, pierce the gloom. It’s a role honed from decades of stage and screen work, including counterculture-coded wanderers in Smoke Signals, Powwow Highway, and Sioux City and the gnomic and grimly funny Nobody in Jim Jarmusch’s Dead Man and Ghost Dog: The Way of the Samurai.

Now 70, Farmer is a legendary figure among North America’s Native artists and entertainers. Born into the Cayuga Nation and Wolf Clan of the Haudenosaunee/Iroquois Confederacy, he grew up in Buffalo, New York, where his father operated a construction crane, and started acting in the mid-1970s, when roles for Indigenous actors were scarce. Farmer and other Native performers of his generation created their own opportunities: writing, directing, producing, and performing in plays and independent films; agitating for less stereotyping in non-Native stories; and organizing to enrich and protect their communities. Reservation Dogs could represent the culmination of efforts of artists like Farmer, but he sees it as just one marker on a timeline that started long before he entered the world and will continue after everyone reading this interview has passed on. He’s done his job, and now it’s time to pass the baton. “For me, it’s always been about developing new stories from our perspective, developing new stories from the ground up with communities — a group of people and a writer or a table full of writers,” says Farmer. “And you know what? It worked. I used to produce. I used to direct. Now I get to sit back and just be the actor.”

When somebody says the title Reservation Dogs, what’s the first thing you think about?

We didn’t know. Nobody really knew.

Knew what? How important it would be?

Yeah! All those people on the creative side of the show are going to be employed for a long time. I don’t know if anything will replace Reservation Dogs, but that creative team has gone into the bigger world to do bigger things.

Was there any talk about keeping the show going?

Sterlin said if he did do a fourth season, he’d want to set it in the 1970s — which you think the network would have gone for, because they would have hired new actors and they could all start from year one at base pay, you know? [Laughs.] But the networks just didn’t buy in.

Are you bummed about that?

Life goes on. It was a sweet part, and probably my most recognizable character ever. I mean, I make jokes about 18-year-old white waitresses realizing, “It’s Uncle Brownie!” I never had that audience, you know? I’ve always had a Native American following. But this has opened me up to a much larger world, a more BIPOC audience, I could say, as well as the mainstream community that has acknowledged this show, even though the Whatever Foreign Press didn’t.

I was surprised we didn’t get one nod from them for Rez Dogs, especially when I saw that this show The Curse, with Emma Stone — which I’m on two episodes of, playing a pretty straight character — got a nod from them. It’s a pretty out-there show, and God bless Emma Stone, but I thought if they were gonna get some recognition, our show should have gotten at least a nod for its final season. But that’s that.

It’s incredible looking back over everything you’ve done. There are so many connection points with other major performers from many generations. For instance, Lily Gladstone made her film debut in a movie you co-starred in, Jimmy P., by the French director Arnaud Desplechin, which was subtitled Psychotherapy of a Plains Indian.

That’s right! It was nice to finally meet Benicio Del Toro after all those years of watching him. He beat me out in that great awards thing. You know the one? The one they started off down on the Santa Monica beach? The Independent Spirit Awards? I’m not sure what they call it anymore.

They still call it the Spirit Awards!

Okay, good. It’s always held the night before the Academy Awards, right? It was a great event. So many great independent films got recognition. Many of them, of course, went on to the Oscars as well. The Independent Spirit Awards was the closest I ever got to the hoopla that Lily will enjoy this coming awards season.

Have you seen Killers of the Flower Moon?

I love Lily, and she’s a dear friend, and I’ve worked with Robert De Niro. I don’t know, I’m just … maybe I’ll see it eventually. It means the world to the community and to all of our nations here in America and Canada and Mexico, and I’m happy for all the attention it’s been getting. But I don’t need to see us murdered 20 times before the credits. Been there, done that, you know? I think the young actress from our show, Devery Jacobs, who plays Elora, was right: She made some observations about that movie on social media which were pretty hard and scathing.

She wrote, “Imagine the worst atrocities committed against [your] ancestors, then having to sit through a movie explicitly filled with them, with the only respite being 30-minute-long scenes of murderous white guys talking about/planning the killings.”

I think a lot of us felt like what she wrote made sense. The film is not us telling the story. I’ve been promoting a book by Linda Hogan, who’s Achocta [Chickasaw]. She wrote a book called Mean Spirit, back in 1990, that tells the same story as the movie and the nonfiction book it was based on! Thirty-three years ago, right? I’ve been talking this book up for 33 years! We are always looking for stories to tell as a Native community or as Native actors, and her novel seemed like a perfect one to tell. But if you’ve got a book written about it from a different perspective that was published two years ago or something, well, that book gets made, and not this earlier one by our own creative people. So anyway, no, I haven’t seen Killers of the Flower Moon.

Are there ever times when you think, I wish I could do more parts where I play one little cog in the story, like white actors have the privilege of doing, and not feel the pressure of having to accurately represent some aspect of the Native experience?

When I decided to be an actor, it was because I had seen the power of theater and how the actor can manipulate stories and pull powerful emotions out of people. I became an actor because I thought, I want to help my people, and how am I going to do that? Am I going to be a cop? That’s certainly not going to help. Am I going to be a social worker? I don’t know. Maybe a lawyer? Once I discovered the theater, I just knew. Oh, this is how I do it. I started acting at 20 and I never turned back.

You were in a lot of movies in the late ’80s and early ’90s that were important for Indigenous actors and filmmakers. You were in Dark Wind, the mystery thriller, based on Tony Hillerman’s novel.

I get a small residual from that now because once the Dark Winds series came on, people started looking at the movie again, which was great.

With A Martinez in Powwwow Highway (1988) Photo: Warner Bros.

And there was the triptych of Powwow Highway, Smoke Signals, and Sioux City within the space of just five years. The character you play in Powwow Highway, Philbert Bono, starts his journey by trading weed for a “war pony,” which is actually a Buick Wildcat, so he can go on a vision quest and thwart some strip miners. Watching it again before talking to you, I thought, Wow, this is like a plot out of Reservation Dogs!

Yeah, that was Powwow Highway! Set in Lame Deer, up in Montana! Jonathan Wacks directed it and Peter McCarthy produced it. They did Repo Man together. I think that was Jonathan’s directorial debut. It was co-written by David Seals, who wrote the novel it was based on, and Janet Heaney and Jean Stawarz, who had never even been to Lame Deer. One of them, I married: Jean Stawarz. She ended up teaching screenwriting at Emerson College and is still on the faculty there.

Working on that film was a wonderful journey. When I got there, not one person on that crew, including the director, had ever been to an Indian reservation! I couldn’t get them to go to the powwow the community was hosting while we were there because they all felt too bad about the living conditions in northern Cheyenne at the time, which was unlike any other reservation in the country, really — a little more northern, a little more isolated, with an amazing survival history, those people. It changed my life, that film — artistically but also personally, because of the growth I experienced from engaging in that culture for those two months we were shooting. I met people I’m still dear friends with. I’m still in touch with Jonathan, and A Martinez and I are as close as ever. A lot of those actors are gone now, of course. It was certainly an important film. It won the Audience Award at Sundance. I wasn’t there for the ceremony because I was busy developing a new play that turned out to be the most profitable thing I’ve ever been involved in.

What was the play?

Dry Lips Oughta Move to Kapuskasing, by Tomson Highway.

Tell me about that.

We came up together. Tomson is a classical pianist and his brother was a modern dancer. I was a photographer when we met. Tomson brought us to the Shaw Festival, which is a big-time event in Toronto. I captured it with photography. I had to play Pontiac from 1796 in a play — the real character of Pontiac, the Odawa leader who fought heartily to maintain his position. Tomson did the Cree part of my speech. It was the first time they brought Indigenous language to a play. I played sax in the halls of this beautiful old theater that must have had 300 seats, a theater in the round. It was just a beautiful time, you know?

And then Tomson started to write his own plays. First it was a small piece for his brother, then he wrote this powerful play called Rez Sisters that went around the world, and then he wrote Dry Lips Oughta Move to Kapuskasing, which is about seven men and this trickster character who’s a woman. It put theater on its nose in Canada when we put it on in 1989. We took most of the awards, and then it won the Governor General’s Award for playwriting. It toured the whole country and went off to Scotland for a big theater festival and even got around the world some. It still gets picked up. It’s a powerful piece. You laugh your ass off in the first act, and then it slaps you around in the second act. It just works so well.

And he’s such a verbose, quadrilingual dude, Tomson — he’s quite a character. I just caught up with him; we might do some of his new work coming up this year, maybe. We’ll see. We’re both getting up there, but I’ve spent a life performing his plays, and several companies developed out of that. Much of the senior actors came up through that system. The theater scene is a lot more prolific in Native communities in Canada because we don’t fight wars every day. There’s more money for the arts generally than there is here.

Tell me about working with the great actor Graham Greene, who acted with you in Dry Lips Oughta Move to Kapuskasing and played Maximus on Reservation Dogs. That’s quite a time span!

My grandmother and Graham’s father are first cousins. I was in the States mostly, but I’d go back to stay at my grandmother’s home. Graham was across the street from us with, like, eight brothers and sisters. We’d known each other since we were children. I was the only child for about eight years. I used to get all these gifts and Graham didn’t get much, so he’d come and play with all the shit I got, and that’s how we got close! We ended up in the same rehearsal halls just by chance. I think he started acting just a bit before me — I started in ’75, he might have started in ’73 or so. But we’d been pals for years before that. He used to be a road man, doing sound and lights for some really popular Canadian musical acts. We used to trip around, and of course Canada closes at 1 a.m. or whatever and we were still out there hustling, so we’d drive down to Buffalo, and Graham would imitate Jesse Ed Davis, the Kiowa guitar player who played with the Beatles, so we could get into clubs down there.

You’ve also worked more than once with other Reservation Dogs cast mates of your generation, including Wes Studi, who was also in Powwow Highway.

Yeah, that was Wes’s first movie appearance. I went to L.A. after that for a bit because, as I said, I had fallen in love with one of the screenwriters of the movie, and she was there, so I used to hang out with Wesley, too. In L.A. I got to teach an acting class through the American Indian Registry. The thing I got the most from it was that studying acting was scene studies. You just match people up as partners and get them to work the scene, you know? Well, all those guys from Oklahoma, they were always very manly, right? Usually you rehearse the scene before you come back again so you got something to present with your partner, but I could never get those Oklahoma Indians to get down and do the work. They’d just come and watch, then they’d get up there with no rehearsal!

But, yeah, I’ve known Wes for years. In fact, I was just thinking about calling Wes today to help me with my pipe. He used to make traditional pipes for us, and I’ve got a stone I’ve been working on, so I’m hoping he can make me a new prayer pipe.

Let’s talk about Jim Jarmusch’s Dead Man, the first English-language film to have Indigenous characters speaking untranslated Cree and Blackfoot. That gave you a character, the spirit guide Nobody, that you played in that film and then Ghost Dog: Way of the Samurai.

There’s a lot I got from Dead Man. I’ll never forget it. I learned so much about myself. Jim and I would have these wonderful discussions about the script and get into questions like, “Don’t the meek inherit the Earth?”

Farmer in Dead Man (1995) Photo: Miramax/Everett Collection

You didn’t want Nobody to die in that movie, right?

I get so into the story when I do these things! You gotta learn when to let go and when to hold up for something you believe in. But, you know, Jim’s such a sensitive guy, and a few years later he goes, “Hey Gary, you were right! I’m gonna put you in Ghost Dog and show ’em that Nobody’s still alive!” We had a wonderful relationship through that one character. I think Nobody’s gonna come back once more, if we both live long enough to do it. There are so many things about that experience that seem incredible to me. There’s the fact of it being Robert Mitchum’s last movie appearance, and the fact of just being in that cast and getting to meet a lot of those performers and hang out. And Jim! He’s like a relative. We stay in touch. We don’t yuk it up as much as we used to, because we’re getting older.

You know, Harvey Weinstein is the one that killed the distribution of that movie throughout America. Dead Man was a movie Jim hoped would play wide but ended up on an art-house tour.

You gotta learn when to let go and when to hold up for something you believe in.

What happened?

Harvey wanted Jim to cut the movie, and Jim refused. He owned the movie and he’d already signed a contract with Harvey saying Miramax was releasing a finished movie and it didn’t have to be cut. So Harvey dumped it. That Dead Man only played art houses in the States killed the film for Jim — economically, certainly. It cost a lot to make by his standards. Jim funded it independently from, I think, Europe and Asia mainly. There was a certain bitterness after that, about the fact that Dead Man didn’t get a better run. But it’s still highly recognized to this day, and it went on to be respected in the academic world, and to become the first American film to win the Screen International Five Continents Award from the European Film Awards. Jim couldn’t go to the ceremony. He sent Johnny Depp and me and Robby Müller, the cinematographer. We had a great time in Berlin. Gandhi gave us the award. Well, not the real Gandhi. The guy who played him. What’s his name?

Ben Kingsley.

[Laughs.] Ben Kingsley! You know, after Dead Man, Johnny originally wanted me to play Doctor Gonzo in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas.

Which Benecio Del Toro ended up playing!

It was good, though — Johnny even introduced me to Hunter S. Thompson. And I had a great relationship with Neil Young after Dead Man. Not long after that, I was trying to develop a national radio system for Native people in Canada. I was at the forefront of that battle when Neil did a fundraiser for us and some other organizations in San Francisco.

I told Jim before we started Dead Man, “Hey, let’s do this story contemporary — like, now! Because that’s my life, you know?” The character of Nobody was abducted as a child and taken to Europe by Europeans. I was the only Indian in an immigrant school in Buffalo. I work there a lot still, in Buffalo, with the Native community. My people are all there because our rezes are on both sides of the border: the Haudenosaunee of the Iroquois. That border has never meant anything to us — hey, wanna hear something great? In 2028, lacrosse is going to be in the Summer Olympics. The Haudenosaunee have our own team, the Haudenosaunee Nationals, and we’ll get to represent our nationhood at the Olympics for the first time! We still don’t get any respect politically, though. It’s been a hard run for our communities, with all these strategies that try to undermine anything we do economically in order to better ourselves. It’s been an uphill battle, even down to basics like infrastructure for water. So I’ve always looked at the kind of work I do as an actor as part of a bigger picture. It certainly serves a purpose to retell American history from a Native perspective.

That’s why it was so great to hang out with the cast and crew on Rez Dogs. They’re a pretty interesting batch of people. I think the show inspired a lot of actors, too. That’s been the basis of my work, to try to inspire people. I needed inspiration coming up. I’m so unique, you know? First, by being a Native actor. Plus, I’m big. Everybody else on a film set is probably gonna be five-foot-eight, five-foot-nine, around that height, maybe a little taller. I’m six-foot-three and 270 pounds. They used to tell me I ate up the screen. That made it hard to get work. It’s been a hard road, you know? As I look back on everything, it seems to me that having a career at all is pretty special in itself.

What are you working on right now?

I just finished shooting in L.A. It’s an interesting little short film by a young Miccosukee tribal member, Montana Cypress. He does theater, too. Montana is a little off-the-beaten-path kind of guy. He doesn’t seem to fit into the norms. I like supporting his artistic nature, though. There were 16 pages of dialogue and I had a five-page speech, so it was challenging, but I whipped it and I felt really good about it. I play an old, dying dog who’s about to get euthanized. And I did manage to get Tantoo Cardinal involved. She kind of plays opposite me. Tantoo and I were both on Spirit Bay, which started in 1982. We also did a TV movie together in 1985, Where the Heart Is, for the CBC series For the Record, which was about social issues. It was a story about Bill C-31. Do you know it?

No, please tell me.

Tantoo played a woman who divorces her white husband and finds out she lost her Native status as a result of the divorce. In Ontario, women who were married off to another tribe lost their status as Native people. There were other ways somebody could lose their status. The bill was about trying to stop that kind of thing from happening, to amend the Indian Act and bring it in line with gender equality according to the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. The passage of that bill was a big win for women.

Eras of oppression and disenfranchisement, I guess, have always befallen us. It’s been interesting to chart the history from my perspective as an actor.

Overall, do you feel like there’s been substantial forward motion in terms of job opportunities and representation?

I don’t know yet. It’s all about who gets out of the gate. I mean, there was Rutherford Falls. But most of the creatives from Reservation Dogs are showrunning or working to tell their own stories. They’re not trying to make another Reservation Dogs. Some of the directors are now in the circle for directing shows that aren’t necessarily Native-themed. Sterlin’s got a paved road ahead of him, you know? He should be okay, right? It seems that anything he touches is gonna turn to gold. Or at least it’ll make audiences think.

What about you?

I’m a 70-year-old actor. I’m on the tail end of a wonderful career. I’m still able to work, and I’m counting on Resident Alien getting renewed next year! We got stopped because of the strike and we were supposed to air in August, then we were pushed to November. Now it’s coming out in January, so we won’t know about being renewed until maybe March. And then six months later … you know, I could be starving to death by then. I gotta start from the ground up again as a working actor. It’s been my life, though. I’m used to that.

Related
Fake_probability: 0.9998981952667236
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMijAFodHRwczovL3d3dy5zYS5nb3YvRGlyZWN0b3J5L05ld3MvTmV3cy1SZWxlYXNlcy9BbmltYWwtQ2FyZS1TZXJ2aWNlcy1JbnRyb2R1Y2VzLUludGVyYWN0aXZlLU9ubGluZS1SZWdpc3RyeS1vZi1EYW5nZXJvdXMtRG9ncy1pbi1TYW4tQW50b25pb9IBAA?oc=5
Title: Animal Care Services Introduces Online Registry of Dangerous Dogs - City of San Antonio
Text: Animal Care Services Introduces Online Registry of Dangerous Dogs

Published on December 01, 2023

SAN ANTONIO (December 1, 2023) – The City of San Antonio’s Animal Care Services (SAACS) introduced a searchable dangerous dog registry that details where legally deemed “dangerous dogs” are located. The online tool lists the specific address in addition to the number of dangerous dogs at the location. The registry is located online at: SAACS.info/DogLaws. There are currently more than 100 dogs deemed “dangerous” in San Antonio. The map will be updated as cases occur and includes the address of all active dangerous dogs as well as the number of dogs designated per address.

“The City of San Antonio’s Dangerous Dog Registry allows us to keep our community informed and safe,” said Shannon Sims, Director of Animal Care Services. “Over the past year, ACS has worked diligently to increase the number of Animal Care Officers to improve the response time to critical calls. This Dangerous Dog Registry is part of ACS Strategic Plan that supports a safe community for residents in their neighborhoods.”

The interactive online registry of dangerous dogs comes after a recent Attorney General ruling that allows Animal Care Services to release information regarding the location’s dangerous dogs.

The City’s ordinance mirrors State Law which currently defines a “dangerous dog” as an animal that makes an unprovoked attack outside the owner’s property that causes bodily injury or a dog that acts in such a way that a person reasonably believes would cause bodily injury should they get out of their yard.

To report a dangerous dog, call 311 (210-207-6000) or visit SA.gov/ACS. If a dangerous dog is posing an immediate threat to life, please call 911.
Fake_probability: 0.9998822212219238
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMimQFodHRwczovL2dvdmVybm9yLnd2Lmdvdi9OZXdzL3ByZXNzLXJlbGVhc2VzLzIwMjQvUGFnZXMvLUdvdmVybm9yLWFuZC1GaXJzdC1MYWR5LWFubm91bmNlLXRoZS1uZXh0LXNpeC10aGVyYXB5LWRvZ3MtdG8tYmUtcGxhY2VkLXRocm91Z2hvdXQtdGhlLXN0YXRlLmFzcHjSAQA?oc=5
Title: Governor and First Lady announce the next 6 therapy dogs to be placed throughout the state - Governor Jim Justice
Text: CHARLESTON, WV — Gov. Justice and First Lady Cathy Justice announced today the next six therapy dogs that will be placed in Communities In Schools sites across West Virginia as part of the First Lady’s Friends With Paws initiative.



Adding these six dogs to Friends With Paws will bring the total number of therapy dogs placed in West Virginia through the program to 25.



“These therapy dogs will bring friendship, love, and support to their schools,” First Lady Justice said. “It’s incredible what benefits these dogs bring, not just for the students but for the whole faculty. I look forward to welcoming each one and seeing the amazing work that they do for our students.” First announced in March 2022, the Friends With Paws program places certified therapy dogs in various CIS schools across the state, providing companionship and comfort for students in need of a boost.



"Having witnessed the incredible impact of the Friends With Paws initiative throughout our state, I'm thrilled to announce its continued growth,” Gov. Justice said. “This initiative is more than just a program; it's become a reason for our students to look forward to coming to school. These dogs are the true heroes and joy-bringers in our schools. These new additions will absolutely enhance the lives of the schools they become a part of."



Therapy dogs are placed in schools within CIS counties where students are disproportionately affected by poverty, substance misuse, or other at-risk situations, and are in greatest need of a support animal. The dogs serve as a healthy and friendly outlet for these students to address trauma and other social-emotional issues. Friends With Paws dogs have also helped increase school attendance, as well as helping students to practice their reading skills with only the therapy dog and teacher present.



The six new therapy dogs being placed are: Clara, a female Golden Retriever – Brooke Middle School, Brooke County, February 28. Parker, a male Golden Retriever – Wheeling Park High School, Ohio County, February 28. Pixie, a female Labradoodle – Lewisburg Elementary School, Greenbrier County, Mid-March. Captain, a male Golden Retriever – Sherman High School, Boone County, Mid-March. Eli, a male Golden Retriever – Nutter Fort Primary School, Harrison County, Mid-April. Prim, a female black Labrador Retriever – Davis-Thomas Elementary/Middle School, Tucker County, Mid-June. Throughout the year, events will be held at various schools to officially welcome the next crop of therapy dogs.



More information about Friends With Paws can be found in Communities In Schools: Friends With Paws, a documentary produced by West Virginia Public Broadcasting. Click HERE to view the documentary. ###
Fake_probability: 0.0004185745492577553
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiUmh0dHBzOi8vd3d3Lndhc2hpbmd0b25wb3N0LmNvbS93ZWxsbmVzcy8yMDI0LzAyLzExL2RvZ3MtY2F0cy1wZXRzLWF0dGFjaG1lbnQtbG92ZS_SAQA?oc=5
Title: The bond with pet dogs and cats is strong, deep and uncomplicated - The Washington Post
Text: The most searing memory of my childhood was the day my mother finally agreed to get us a puppy, only to change her mind several hours later. She decided it would be too much work. Growing up, all I ever wanted was a dog or a cat. All I ever got was a turtle, countless goldfish and two parakeets.

Not surprisingly, the first thing I did after leaving home was get a kitten, a half-Siamese who lived to nearly 20, then a Burmese who made it to 17. When my kids were old enough — 10 and 13 — we got a chocolate lab puppy, as much for me as for them. The kids grew up and left, but Hershey stayed. She was my first dog and — with no husband or partner — my best friend.

The years brought a half-dozen more cats and two more dogs, Watson, a black lab then age 6 months, and Raylan, a yellow shepherd mix, who, at 4 years old, arrived with a BB pellet in his leg and a clear case of post-traumatic stress. With patience and love, Ray morphed from a fearful defensive stray into a devoted and trusting companion.

Advertisement

Today I live with Watson, now 10, the king of fetch, a mama’s boy who follows me everywhere; Chloe, 15, a long-haired part-Maine Coon cat, who loves dogs more than other cats; and Zachy, 10, a gray and black tabby obsessed with food — and my socks. All are rescues.

It was predictable after my pet-deprived youth that I would have animals. What surprised me was the intensity of my feelings for them, and how much my relationship with them would come to define my life.

I was paralyzed with grief and guilt (did I do the right thing?) when Hershey, at 13, was diagnosed with an advanced untreatable cancer and I had to let her go. Similarly, I fell apart after Raylan, then 12, and two of the cats, Max, almost 18, and Leo, 15, also developed cancer, and — in a recent short time span — were gone. Today I feel intermittent anxiety about Watson, Chloe and Zachy, the scientific term being anticipatory grief.

Advertisement

Social media is rife with personal stories of the animal/human bond, especially how difficult it can be to say goodbye. Our relationships with our pets often are as strong as and sometimes stronger than, those we have with our humans, and far less complicated. This may explain our deep connection with them.

“Often, pets are our first or even only chosen family when we leave childhood homes, when we live alone, when our children leave, when we go through breakups,” says Marjie Alonso, former executive director of the International Association of Animal Behavior Consultants and the IAABC Foundation. “Our pets provide a steady, stable presence in a way humans do not.”

Researchers sometimes use attachment theory to describe this bonded relationship between humans and their pets, which holds that humans are born with an innate need to bond with a caregiver, usually their mother. “For many pet owners, the attachment relationships we develop are as emotionally close and similar in intensity as a human attachment,” says Michael Meehan, a senior lecturer in veterinary science at Massey University in New Zealand. “Our pets also display the same attachment behavior toward us.”

Advertisement

Sandra McCune, visiting professor in human-animal interaction in the schools of psychology and life sciences at the University of Lincoln in England, agrees. “It may be that companion animals have hijacked our innate desire to form attachments,” she says. “They depend on us like a child that never grows up.”

Share this article Share

My companion animals make up the rhythm of my days — and nights. It’s not just the walk/runs with Watson, or his endless preoccupation with tennis balls, or ensuring Chloe gets her medicines on time, and that Zachy has the special food he needs to prevent urinary blockages.

It’s also those exquisitely sweet moments: Watson, warm against my back while I sleep, and Chloe, who starts on my stomach, then moves into the crook of my arm when I shift. Zachy, still dog-wary, stays downstairs overnight, but waits at the bottom of the steps and demands breakfast as soon as he hears us stir.

Advertisement

“Pets tend to be always the same, even on good and bad days, reliably who they are and reliably ours in our relationship with them,” Alonso says. “Their own needs and wants are fixed around food, enrichment and care, focusing on us, rather than ‘Is my promotion going to come through?’ ‘You forgot our anniversary,’ or, ‘What do you want for dinner?’”

Emily Bray, assistant professor of human-animal interaction in the University of Arizona College of Veterinary Medicine, agrees. “When they are tuned into us, you have their full attention. They are not texting on their phones,” she says.

My children have their own lives now — and their own cats — and make their own decisions. But pets need us to make choices for them, even when it isn’t easy. “Pet owners have to decide when the time comes for euthanasia, which often complicates grief and doesn’t often exist in relation to human death,” says Meehan, also a pet grief counselor. “Unlike human death, there are no traditional rituals or protocols in place to memorialize a pet.”

Advertisement

McCune calls anticipatory grief a normal response to the prospect of loss. “It’s part of the love you have for them,” she says. “Enjoy them while you have them, make and keep memories for when they go. There are just some very special dogs and cats, the ones that steal your heart, that you constantly involve in your life, and that you change your life for.”

That has been true for me and, as it turned out, for my parents, too. Years after my brothers and I moved out, my sister-in-law gifted my parents, then in their 70s, with their first dog, a cocker spaniel puppy.
Fake_probability: 0.9989609718322754
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiamh0dHBzOi8vd3d3LndidXIub3JnL2NvZ25vc2NlbnRpLzIwMjMvMTAvMDUvc3Rlcmxpbi1oYXJqby1kZWVyLWxhZHktcmVzZXJ2YXRpb24tZG9ncy1maW5hbGUtdmFuZXNzYS1saWxsaWXSAQA?oc=5
Title: 'Reservation Dogs' reminded me that I carry my Native community with me - WBUR News
Text: I first heard about the Deer Lady at church. “She’s half-deer, half-woman, and she kills men who hunt in the woods,” said a cool older girl with permed hair smelling of Aqua Net (it was the late 80s). “My uncle saw her, and she had red glowing eyes. But she didn’t kill him.”

As pre-device kids in rural Oklahoma, when we got together — in this case, while our moms were at choir practice — we’d try to scare each other with spooky stories. Of all the campfire tales (Big Foot, Little People, Spook Light, Lovers Leap), the Deer Lady was the lightest on details: always alone, seeking justice, usually just after men. And, of course, the red glowing eyes.

I hadn’t thought much about the Deer Lady until Sterlin Harjo (who is Muscogee and Seminole) introduced her in season one of “Reservation Dogs,” the award-winning FX series that he co-created with Oscar-winning filmmaker Taika Waititi (who is Maori). The dramedy, which concluded beautifully last week after three seasons, centers on four teenagers and their Rez community, telling modern Native stories well, something rarely done in the hundred or so years of television’s history.

No small part of this success lies in who is doing the telling. “Reservation Dogs” is the first mainstream show where every writer, director and series regular performer is Native, as well as much of the crew. It’s also the first scripted network show to film wholly in Oklahoma, in the Muscogee Nation.

While the tale of the Deer Lady is certainly not unique to my Cherokee tribe, but told throughout NDN country, it was still a surprise to see her on screen. As part of a flashback, a young version of the tribal officer, Big, sits alone at a funeral. He’s given advice — “Be good and fight evil” — by the Deer Lady, played by the incredible Kaniehtiio Horn (who is Kahnawake Mohawk). Young Big lives by it, and who wouldn’t after seeing a story told in the dark come to life: a woman with deer hoof feet peeking out from her denim jumpsuit who murders two bad men robbing a gas station — all while young Big is stuck in the bathroom, looking for toilet paper.

If that scenario seems funny — but also terrifying — you’ve found the third rail often struck by this brilliant show. These are stories that perfectly balance heart and entertainment, and when it comes to Native history, laughter makes as much of an impact as tears. “Reservation Dogs” doesn’t spare you either.

While the heart of the show is community, the Deer Lady is a solo operator, clicking her hooves up and down the turnpike (what Okies call the highway) to exact revenge on bad men. With a feathered haircut, big sunglasses and a burnt-orange shearling suede jacket, she is both angel of death and the Egyptian god Osiris, placing a heart on the scale, weighing our evil deeds against the feather of truth and justice. Her presence is violent, but soothing; she embodies a fearlessness with men not always possible for the rest of us, especially in the rural spaces she navigates.

While Deer Lady appears again in season two, in an episode that may be the wildest of the show (no major spoilers, but if you watch, rest assured, you’ll never look at catfish the same way again) — in season three, Harjo brings her out of the campfire mythos and into the light of a fully formed person navigating her own trauma. The Deer Lady, we learn, is a Residential School survivor, an experience many in Native communities know as Indian Boarding Schools, where the “kill the Indian in him, and save the man” policy of stealing Native children from their homes resulted in beating, shaming and torturing them into Christian English indoctrination. Hundreds of thousands of children were sent to these “schools,” a key piece of the genocide playbook funded by the United States government for all Native people on this land.

In the episode, directed by Danis Goulet (Cree and Métis), we are given glimpses of that terrifying experience from the point of view of the children, stripped of names and ties to home by “human wolves.” The residential school flashbacks are mostly in Kiowa, while the nuns’ and guards’ speech is garbled, “like the Charlie Brown teachers but scarier.” Language contains stories, worldviews and beliefs, and it was another piece of identity stolen from children of residential schools. It’s estimated there are only 20 fluent Kiowa speakers today, but the Kiowa actress who plays the young Deer Lady is part of a new generation learning the language.

And while the Deer Lady enacts justice in this episode, she also restores it. She returns Bear (actor D’Pharaoh Woon-A-Tai who is Oji-Cree), a Rez Dog kid accidentally left behind at a bus station while arguing with his spirit guide, back to his community — to his mom, his uncles, his aunties, his cousins and friends. Bear carries with him the values and traditions the Residential School she escaped from tried to exterminate.

Again and again, we see how community isn’t only good for the soul but needed for survival.

Again and again, we see how community isn’t only good for the soul but needed for survival. The four kids at the center have kindness in their hearts and come to see the opportunities around them, despite living in a place designed for failure. Because they were raised in a community that loves them and supports them — even when, as we see in the show’s opening scene, they steal a truck of Flaming Flamers hot chips.

The final episode opens with another of the young Rez Dogs talking to Hokti (played by Lily Gladstone, who is Blackfeet and Nimíipuu). She’s the mother of a character whose death by suicide, before the series begins, has left the community heartbroken, and despite her heartbreak (or location, Hokti is in prison), she explains to her niece that community must be tended and nurtured: “That’s how community works. What do you think they came for when they tried to get rid of us? Our community. You break that, and you break the individual.”

Those lines struck me hard. When I moved away from Oklahoma for college, then on to Kansas City, D.C. and Providence, I worried I’d severed something in my life. Perhaps that’s why I set my latest book, “Blood Sisters,” back in Oklahoma, writing about the place where I first heard about the Deer Lady, and creating characters who endured trauma and are seeking justice for themselves and their community.

I was reaching for some of what Harjo so masterfully does in “Reservation Dogs,” sharing community through storytelling, as we’ve done in churches and around fires, time immemorial — sharing in laughter as much as tears.

Editor's note: Vanessa Lillie’s novel, “Blood Sisters,” the first in a suspense series featuring a Cherokee archeologist for the Bureau of Indian Affairs, will publish on October 31 from Penguin RandomHouse. On November 10th, she will be in conversation with Cherokee author Adrienne Keene at Brookline Booksmith.

Follow Cognoscenti on Facebook and Instagram .
Fake_probability: 0.9995860457420349
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiWGh0dHBzOi8vd3d3Lndhc2hpbmd0b25wb3N0LmNvbS9hZHZpY2UvMjAyMy8wOS8wMS9jYXJvbHluLWhheC1kb2ctcG9pc29uaW5nLW92ZXJyZWFjdGluZy_SAQA?oc=5
Title: Advice | Carolyn Hax: Sibling saves dog from poisoning, gets blamed for 'overreacting' - The Washington Post
Text: Dear Carolyn: My sister expects me to apologize to her father-in-law after he tried to kill my dog. I went to see my parents with her, same as always. I caught “George” giving my dog some grapes. I explained they were toxic for dogs and she couldn’t have them. Later I saw him feeding them to her. I ran over to stop it but my brother-in-law caught me, saying, “Let him go, he’s having fun and there’s nothing wrong with those grapes.”

He wouldn’t let me go and he’s a huge guy so I used a maneuver I learned in self-defense where you stomp full force down on their instep. It worked, I got away and knocked George away from my dog. I rushed her to the emergency vet, who kept her overnight and said I did the right thing since grapes are so dangerous for a dog.

My dog is okay but now I have a huge vet bill to pay. George told my family how his dogs used to eat grapes all the time and said I was crazy. So instead of being sorry, my family is accusing me of overreacting and hurting my brother-in-law for nothing. They are insisting I apologize to him and his father.

Advertisement

I showed my parents lots of info on how dangerous grapes are for dogs, but they insist this is all BS vets made up to make money. My sister says I’m not welcome in her home until I “humbly apologize” and admit I was wrong. I am not apologizing to people who basically tried to kill my dog and make me watch. Should I stand my ground even if it means not seeing my family for a while?

— Anonymous

Share this article Share

Anonymous: Small claims court warrants serious consideration, but backing down does not. Before you entertain thoughts of letting this go because they are “family,” take a moment to consider how much your family status mattered to your brother-in-law in the moment and matters to your sister and parents now.

George and his son could so easily have respected your wishes and left the grapes on the table, even if they believed 100 percent they were safe. There was no point to feeding your dog anything and they had nothing to prove except their control. Your sister and parents, too, could so easily take you (and the vet, and the very concept of expertise) as more credible than George. Or at least as the more valid authority over your own pet.

Advertisement

But they didn’t. And that’s some serious stuff. Physically restraining you is serious, too, and unacceptable even in jest. Barring you from the house is a serious case of punitive excess. All this on top of the serious and reckless arrogance that could have harmed your dog.

And aside from the fact that their conspiracy theory around this issue is laughable — a profession so famously nonremunerative is hardly a magnet for schemers — they are showing hints of something awfully familiar lately: the shunning of expertise as if it’s an enemy tactic in the existential war of “us against them.”
Fake_probability: 0.9996938705444336
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMitwFodHRwczovL2dvdmVybm9yLnd2Lmdvdi9OZXdzL3ByZXNzLXJlbGVhc2VzLzIwMjMvUGFnZXMvR292ZXJub3ItYW5kLUZpcnN0LUxhZHktSnVzdGljZS1hbm5vdW5jZS1uZXh0LXNldmVuLXRoZXJhcHktZG9ncy10by1iZS1wbGFjZWQtdGhyb3VnaC10aGUtRnJpZW5kcy1XaXRoLVBhd3MtcHJvZ3JhbS1pbi0yMDIzLmFzcHjSAQA?oc=5
Title: Governor and First Lady Justice announce next seven therapy dogs to be placed through the Friends With Paws ... - Governor Jim Justice
Text: CHARLESTON, WV — Gov. Jim Justice and First Lady Cathy Justice announced today the next seven therapy dogs that will be placed in schools across West Virginia as a part of the First Lady’s Friends With Paws initiative.



The addition of the seven dogs to Friends With Paws will bring the total number of therapy dogs placed in West Virginia through the program to nineteen. “These therapy dogs will bring friendship, love, and support to their schools,” First Lady Justice said. “I look forward to welcoming each one and seeing the amazing work that they do for our students.”



"You know me, I'm very in tune with what a dog can bring to all of us," Gov. Justice said. "Babydog has done it, and I know there are a bunch of new therapy dogs that will be doing good stuff, too. I am so excited to see how these dogs will positively impact students around our state. We are going to continue helping our students and communities by providing them with the resources they need to succeed."



First announced in March 2022, the Friends With Paws program places certified therapy dogs in various CIS schools across the state, providing companionship and comfort for students in need of a boost.



The Friends With Paws Program is a partnership between the Governor’s Office, West Virginia Communities In Schools (CIS) Nonprofit, and the West Virginia Department of Education.



Therapy dogs are placed in schools within CIS counties where students are disproportionately affected by poverty, substance misuse, or other at-risk situations, and are in the greatest need of a support animal. The dogs serve as a healthy and friendly outlet for these students to address trauma and other social-emotional issues.



The seven new therapy dogs being placed in Fall 2023 are: Ruby, a Female Golden Retriever, will be placed at Greenbrier East High School in Greenbrier County. Malfoy, a male Yellow Labrador, will be placed at Chapmanville Intermediate School in Logan County. Skye, a female Brown Labradoodle, will be placed at Berkeley Springs High School in Morgan County. Tora, a female Yellow Labrador, will be placed at Elkins High School in Randolph County. Penny, a female Yellow Labrador, will be placed at Pendleton County Middle-High School in Pendleton County. Meadow, a female Yellow Labrador, will be placed at Washington Lands Elementary School in Marshall County. Nutter is a male Chocolate Labrador. His school placement will be announced at a later date. Schools that previously received therapy dogs through the Friends With Paws program include: Coal

Foster

Jasper

River

Shadow

Jet

Kylo

Winnie

Kasha

Marshal

Louie

Oakley Throughout the fall, events will be held at each school to officially welcome the new therapy dogs. Additional details will be shared at a later date.



More information about Friends With Paws can be found in Communities In Schools: Friends With Paws, a documentary produced by West Virginia Public Broadcasting. Click HERE to view the documentary. ###
Fake_probability: 0.00029284917400218546
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiTWh0dHA6Ly92dGZpc2hhbmR3aWxkbGlmZS5jb20vaHVudC9odW50aW5nLXJlZ3VsYXRpb25zL2h1bnRpbmctY295b3Rlcy1haWQtZG9n0gEA?oc=5
Title: Hunting Coyotes with the Aid of Dogs | Vermont Fish & Wildlife Department - Vermont Fish & Wildlife Department
Text: This webpage provides highlights of Section 4.20 of 10 App. V.S.A. § 44. Furbearing species rule.

Click here for a complete wording of the rule.

NOTE: This information pertains ONLY to hunting coyotes with the aid of dogs. If hunting coyotes without the aid of dogs, there is no closed hunting season and coyotes may be hunted at any time under natural light.

Season Dates Notes Coyote Dog Training Season June 1 - September 15 A Coyote Dog Permit required.

A nonresident may train dogs to pursue coyote only while the training season is in effect in the nonresident’s home state and subject to the requirements of Vermont’s rules.

Coyote Dog Hunting Season December 15 - March 31 A Coyote Dog Permit required. No coyote hunting with dogs is allowed until permits are received



Shooting hours: One half hour before sunrise until one half hour after sunset.

Licenses and Permits

Any person hunting, pursuing, harvesting, or in any manner involved in the taking of a coyote with the aid of dogs must hold a valid Vermont Hunting License, and use only department registered dogs.



Any person training, hunting, pursuing, harvesting, or in any manner involved in the taking of a coyote with the aid of dogs must apply for and hold a valid Coyote Dog Permit issued by the department, or accompany a Coyote Dog Permit holder.

Coyote Dog Permit applications are available for download here.

The deadline to apply is January 15, 2024

Lottery: If more than 100 permit applications are received the department will hold a lottery to randomly select 100 permits.



If more than 100 permit applications are received the department will hold a lottery to randomly select 100 permits. The permit must always be carried by the permittee while taking coyote with the aid of dogs, and exhibited to a game warden, landowner, or law enforcement officer upon demand.

Legal Methods

A person may harvest a coyote by utilizing a muzzleloader or gun fired at arm’s length, or bow and arrow, or crossbow.



All arrows or crossbow bolts must have an arrowhead of at least 7/8 of an inch wide and at least two cutting sides.

Dogs and Packs

A person shall not take coyote with the aid of dogs unless the person is in control of the dog(s).



Control means that when transporting, loading, or unloading dogs from vehicle(s), and handling, catching, restraining, releasing, or following dogs at all times during training dogs and taking of coyote with the aid of dogs the permittee shall be able to locate and remotely recall the dogs.



Collar(s) with GPS functions, track log capability, and training/control features in the collar(s) shall be required to always locate and track dogs. Collar(s) will also have a Department Registration Dog-Tag and a metal identification name plate with the person's name, address and telephone number attached.



A person taking a coyote with the aid of dogs shall maintain a GPS location log of each dog taking coyote and shall maintain the log for at least 30 days after the close of the season.



Department Registered Dog is a dog bearing a numbered identification dog-tag (Department Registration Dog-Tag) approved or issued by the department, with the permit holder's coyote dog permit number and a number one to four.



is a dog bearing a numbered identification dog-tag (Department Registration Dog-Tag) approved or issued by the department, with the permit holder's coyote dog permit number and a number one to four. Pack of Dogs is one to four dogs. Removing and replacing one or more dogs to the original pack of dogs once the pursuit has begun is prohibited.

Reporting

A person taking coyotes with the aid of dogs shall within 48 hours after the close of season, report the taking of all coyotes during the season on a form provided with their coyote dog permit.

Download the Reporting Form

Hunting on Private Land

A person hunting coyotes with dogs shall not release the dogs on land posted in accordance with Title 10 V.S.A. § 5201, without the written permission of the landowner.



A person hunting coyotes with the aid of dogs is encouraged to seek landowner permission before releasing dogs or entering land that is not posted in accordance with Title 10 V.S.A. § 5201.

See also:
Fake_probability: 0.9997695088386536
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiWWh0dHBzOi8vd3d3Lm55dGltZXMuY29tLzIwMjQvMDQvMTAvbWFnYXppbmUvc3BlbmR0aHJpZnQtZnJpZW5kLWRvZy1mdW5kcmFpc2VyLWV0aGljcy5odG1s0gEA?oc=5
Title: My Friend Is a Spendthrift With a Sick Dog. Should I Give to Her GoFundMe? - The New York Times
Text: For the past decade, I’ve been involved in an animal-rescue group as a volunteer foster to dogs in need. I have developed a friendship with a group of women, all of whom have taken in difficult-to-place foster dogs. One woman ended up adopting a dog that had behavioral issues she was willing to work on and that had tumors, which had been removed by the animal-rescue group.

It has now been almost two years since the woman adopted this dog, and the tumors are back. The cost to test and remove the tumors starts at around $2,000. The woman is saying she is broke and doesn’t know whether she should proceed. She has been in debt before and doesn’t want to go in debt again. One of the other friends in the group decided to start a GoFundMe to help cover these costs.

This dog adopter is very reckless with her finances. She works a decent job and makes ends meet but spends as if she’s in a much higher income bracket. For example, she has gone to see a very prominent rock band multiple times last year and had front-row seats for each show. She had already seen this band upward of 25 times in her life. When she forgot her winter jacket on a recent trip, she wisely went to a thrift store and bought a coat. But then she decided it wasn’t good enough and went out and bought a brand-new coat. And then got home and liked that coat so much she bought a second one — new. On our monthly dinner outing with the friend group, she orders three cocktails, when everybody else just orders one.

All this is to say that, knowing the dog has had issues with tumors, she has failed to put aside any sort of emergency fund. Even without the tumors, I think people should have an emergency fund to cover costs for their dogs. Dogs are family, and we owe it to them to provide reasonable amounts of care. I enjoy life but live beneath my means. I see local bands, I watch for sales, buy used when possible, etc.
Fake_probability: 0.99992835521698
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiaGh0dHBzOi8vYWJvdXQudXNwcy5jb20vbmV3c3Jvb20vbmF0aW9uYWwtcmVsZWFzZXMvMjAyMy8wNjAxLXVzcHMtcmVsZWFzZXMtZG9nLWJpdGUtbmF0aW9uYWwtcmFua2luZ3MuaHRt0gEA?oc=5
Title: U.S. Postal Service Releases Dog Bite National Rankings - Newsroom - About USPS home
Text: U.S. Postal Service Releases Dog Bite National Rankings National Dog Bite Awareness Week Starts June 4

Gaithersburg, MD, letter carrier Hugues Pointe Jour takes a protective stance against an approaching dog.

WASHINGTON — More than 5,300 Postal Service employees were attacked by dogs while delivering the mail last year. Aggressive dog behavior is a common safety concern USPS employees face. To keep its workers safe, the organization is providing important information on how dog owners can be good stewards for safe mail delivery as part of its annual National Dog Bite Awareness Week public service campaign.

The campaign runs Sunday, June 4, through Saturday, June 10. This year’s theme is “Even good dogs have bad days.” Spread the news of the campaign with the hashtag #dogbiteawareness.

“When letter carriers deliver mail in our communities, dogs that are not secured or leashed can become a nemesis and unpredictable and attack,” said Leeann Theriault, USPS employee safety and health awareness manager. “Help us deliver your mail safely by keeping your dog secure and out of the way before your carrier arrives.”

Pet Owners Can Help Support Safe Mail Delivery

Mail carriers know all dogs can bite, even those perceived as nonaggressive. Dogs are generally protective of their turf and dog owners have an important responsibility to control them to ensure safe mail delivery.

Most people know the approximate time their letter carrier arrives every day. Securing your dog before the carrier approaches your property will minimize any potentially dangerous interactions.

When a letter carrier comes to your home, keep dogs:

Inside the house or behind a fence;

Away from the door or in another room; or

On a leash.

Pet owners also should remind children not to take mail directly from a letter carrier as the dog may view the carrier as a threat to the child.

Inform Yourself, See the Mail Before It Arrives

By using Informed Delivery, a free USPS service, customers can digitally preview incoming mail and packages from a computer, tablet or mobile device. More than 52 million customers have enrolled since it was launched in 2017. Sign up is at informeddelivery.usps.com. This service can help dog owners anticipate when their carrier will arrive.

“When our mail carriers are bitten, it is usually a ‘good dog’ that had not previously behaved in a menacing way,” said USPS Occupational Safety and Health Senior Director Linda DeCarlo. “In 2022, too many aggressive dogs impacted the lives of our employees while delivering the mail. Please help us reduce that number by being a responsible pet owner who secures their dog as we deliver the mail.”

The Victims

Many attacks reported by letter carriers came from dogs whose owners regularly stated, “My dog won’t bite.” Dog bites are entirely preventable. One bite is one too many.

Being Attentive While Delivering

Letter carriers are trained to observe an area where they know dogs may be present. They are taught to be alert for potentially dangerous conditions and to respect a dog’s territory.

Letter carriers are trained to:

Not startle a dog;

Keep their eyes on any dog;

Never assume a dog will not bite;

Make some noise or rattle a fence to alert a dog if entering a yard;

Never attempt to pet or feed a dog; and

Place their foot against an outward swinging door to prevent a dog from escaping.

If a dog attacks, carriers are also trained to stand their ground and protect their body by placing something between them and the dog — such as a mail satchel — and to use dog repellent, if necessary.

Even though postal officials ask customers to control their dogs, bites still happen and may result in injuries to carriers and costly medical expenses for dog owners. Please heed the above best practices to help stop dog bites and protect your mail carrier.

“Recently, I was delivering to a customer’s mailbox and was nearly bitten by their large aggressive dog,” said Swain Lowe, a letter carrier in Manassas, Virginia. “Despite the dog being behind a fence, it still managed to jump over and charge me. Thankfully, I was aware of it and remembered not to run but to turn and use my satchel as a shield to prevent what could have been a terrible bite.”

Carriers have tools to alert them to dogs on their routes. A dog alert feature on carriers’ handheld scanners can remind them of a possible dog hazard, and dog warning cards may be used during mail sorting to alert carriers to routes where a dog may interfere with delivery.

Lastly, when a carrier feels unsafe, mail service could be halted — not only for the dog owner, but for the entire neighborhood. When mail service is stopped, mail must be picked up at the Post Office. Service will not be restored until the aggressive dog is properly restrained.

2022 Dog Attack Rankings by City

The top 20 ranking are comprised of 36 cities, as some cities reported the same number of attacks. For 2022 dog attack data in your specific city or town, contact your local USPS public relations representative.

2022 Dog Attack Rankings by City Calendar Year 2022 City State 2022 Rank HOUSTON TX 57 1 LOS ANGELES CA 48 2 DALLAS TX 44 3 CLEVELAND OH 43 4 SAN DIEGO CA 39 5 CHICAGO IL 36 6 ST. LOUIS MO 34 7 KANSAS CITY MO 33 8 PHOENIX AZ 32 9 SAN ANTONIO TX 32 9 DETROIT MI 30 10 PHILADELPHIA PA 28 11 LOUISVILLE KY 26 12 COLUMBUS OH 23 13 MINNEAPOLIS MN 22 14 MILWAUKEE WI 22 14 CINCINNATI OH 22 14 CHARLOTTE NC 21 15 MIAMI FL 21 15 INDIANAPOLIS IN 21 15 TOLEDO OH 20 16 BATON ROUGE LA 20 16 MEMPHIS TN 19 17 SAN FRANSISCO CA 19 17 PITTSBURGH PA 19 17 DENVER CO 19 17 AKRON OH 19 17 BUFFALO NY 18 18 DAYTON OH 18 18 FORT WORTH TX 17 19 LONG BEACH CA 16 20 STOCKTON CA 16 20 JACKSONVILLE FL 16 20 OKLAHOMA CITY OK 16 20 EL PASO TX 16 20 BALTIMORE MD 16 20

Top 10 Dog Bite States:

Top 10 Dog Bite States State 2021 2022 CA 656 675 TX 368 404 NY 239 321 PA 281 313 OH 359 311 IL 226 245 FL 201 220 MI 244 206 MO 161 166 NC 126 146

###
Fake_probability: 0.9998306035995483
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiemh0dHBzOi8vbmV3c3Jvb20uY2xldmVsYW5kY2xpbmljLm9yZy8yMDIzLzEyLzAxL2NsZXZlbGFuZC1jbGluaWMtY2hpbGRyZW5zLWZhY2lsaXR5LWRvZ3MtZW1iYXJrLW9uLWludGVybmF0aW9uYWwtYWR2ZW50dXJl0gEA?oc=5
Title: Cleveland Clinic Children's Facility Dogs Embark on International Adventure - Cleveland Clinic Newsroom
Text: The real Kid and Trotter with their world-traveling replicas.

The healing spirit of two loyal Cleveland Clinic Children’s caregivers will be unleashed across the globe this December, as replicas of golden retrievers Kid and Trotter tour the health system’s facilities, highlighting medical breakthroughs, services that support patients and families, and expansion projects, while bringing attention to the clinical benefits of employing facility dogs.

Kid and Trotter are highly trained facility dogs that work in healthcare settings and perform specialized tasks. As full-time employees, they work at Ohio’s Cleveland Clinic Children’s facility, on main campus, supervised by Child Life specialist handlers. The dogs have a wide range of duties that help medical teams achieve their clinical goals, for example, by keeping children calm during medical interventions or providing an incentive for a child to get out of bed and take a walk.

Kid and Trotter play an invaluable role in supporting and comforting pediatric patients on a daily basis. The #PawsforJoy campaign celebrates the important work of these dogs while also highlighting new developments at Cleveland Clinic’s many locations around the world. The hope is the campaign will enable animal lovers of all ages to take a moment to pause for joy this festive season as they follow the daily adventures of these furry ambassadors on the @clevelandclinic Instagram account.

The lookalike stuffed toys will explore Cleveland Clinic locations in northeast Ohio; southeast Florida; Las Vegas, Nevada; Toronto, Canada; Abu Dhabi, UAE; and London, England. They will provide a behind-the-scenes view of these facilities, including discovering how Cleveland Clinic Children’s physicians use 3D-printing to plan surgeries on infant hearts and riding on a construction crane to get a bird’s eye view of Cleveland Clinic’s main campus transformation, which includes advancing care for patients with neurological conditions.

The dogs will soak up the sun at one of the aquatic therapy centers in Cleveland Clinic Florida, before hitting the ice with professional hockey players while visiting Cleveland Clinic Canada to meet sports medicine specialists. They will admire Buckingham Palace from the windows of Cleveland Clinic London and take a tour of Cleveland Clinic Abu Dhabi.

Kid and Trotter were brought to Cleveland Clinic Children’s in 2019 through the support of the Dunkin’ Joy in Childhood Foundation, which provided the grant enabling Cleveland Clinic to launch its permanent ‘Dogs for Joy’ program.
Fake_probability: 0.9999110698699951
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiQWh0dHBzOi8vd3d3Lm55dGltZXMuY29tLzIwMjMvMTIvMjAvb3Bpbmlvbi9kb2dzLWN1bHR1cmUtd2Fycy5odG1s0gEA?oc=5
Title: Opinion | My Year of Being Very Online About Dogs - The New York Times
Text: If you own a dog and have ever searched the internet for advice on that dog, there’s a good chance you’ve encountered Zak George.

Mr. George, a 45-year-old with 3.69 million YouTube followers and the slightly goofy, hyper energy of a doodle mix, is the most popular dog trainer on the platform. He’s the most popular by a long shot: Cesar Millan, the dog whisperer, has 2.71 million. Those trying to deride Mr. George — and there are many — will often say he stopped being a dog trainer a long time ago; what he is now is a dog influencer.

I’ve watched Mr. George’s videos for years; I deployed them as background noise while doing dishes or folding laundry. I watched as he worked with untrained rescue dogs to prepare them for new homes. I watched as he road-tripped across the country in a camper van with his two dogs and his wife. Every once in a while, there were hints that he had bigger things on his mind: his videos in which he said the dog training industry needed to confront its “misogyny,” for instance. But mostly his content consisted of him training his dogs: Inertia, a black and white Border collie, and Veronica, a rescue mutt with a cute underbite.
Fake_probability: 0.9999779462814331
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMitAFodHRwczovL2dvdmVybm9yLnd2Lmdvdi9OZXdzL3ByZXNzLXJlbGVhc2VzLzIwMjQvUGFnZXMvRmlyc3QtTGFkeS1KdXN0aWNlLWFubm91bmNlcy1uZXdlc3QtRnJpZW5kcy1XaXRoLVBhd3MtdGhlcmFweS1kb2dzLWF0LUJyb29rZS1NaWRkbGUtU2Nob29sLWFuZC1XaGVlbGluZy1QYXJrLUhpZ2gtU2Nob29sLmFzcHjSAQA?oc=5
Title: First Lady Justice announces newest Friends With Paws therapy dogs at Brooke Middle School and Wheeling Park ... - Governor Jim Justice
Text: CHARLESTON, WV — First Lady Cathy Justice announced today the state’s newest therapy dogs through the Friends With Paws program are officially placed at Brooke Middle School and Wheeling Park High School.



The therapy dogs were announced during assemblies celebrating their arrival.



Clara, a female Golden Retriever, was placed at Brooke Middle School. Parker, a male Golden Retriever, was placed at Wheeling Park High School. “I have no doubt that Clara and Parker will be a tremendous addition to both Brooke Middle and Wheeling Park High,” First Lady Cathy Justice said. “We have been able to see firsthand what these therapy dogs are capable of, and the benefits are staggering. Whether it be better reading skills, increased attendance rates, or an overall morale boost for the students and faculty, these dogs are here to help.”



The Friends With Paws program places certified therapy dogs in several schools across the state, providing companionship and comfort for students in need of a boost. Since December 2023, 19 Friends With Paws therapy dogs have been placed across the state.



Therapy dogs are specially trained to provide comfort and support to people in various tense environments. They can help people feel at ease, improve their mood, relieve anxiety, and remove social barriers. Therapy dogs are highly trained and certified to show their ability to work in stressful environments, ignore distractions, and provide therapy to people with diverse backgrounds and circumstances.



Following today’s assemblies, students and staff had the chance to greet Clara and Parker. “We are so excited to have Parker join our school community," Principal Meredith Dailer of Wheeling Park High School said. "We are dedicated to providing our students with as many positive experiences and mental health supports available. We believe he will be a welcomed and well loved addition to Wheeling Park High School.” “We have been anxiously waiting for Clara’s arrival for months and are ecstatic that the day has finally arrived. Clara will be such an asset to our school community. We are fortunate to gain her as a member of our school,” Principal Jenn Schiffbauer-Sisinni of Brooke Middle School said. The Friends With Paws program is a partnership between the Governor’s Office, West Virginia Communities In Schools (CIS) Nonprofit, and the West Virginia Department of Education. Therapy dogs are placed in schools within CIS counties where students are disproportionately affected by poverty, substance misuse, or other at-risk situations, and are in the greatest need of a support animal. The dogs serve as a healthy and friendly outlet for these students to address trauma and other social-emotional issues.



Schools that previously received therapy dogs through the Friends With Paws program include:

● Coal, a male Black Labrador, at Welch Elementary, McDowell County

● Foster, a male Golden Labradoodle, at Buckhannon Academy Elementary, Upshur County

● Jasper, a female Yellow Labrador, at Lewis County High School, Lewis County

● River, a male Yellow Labrador, at Pineville Elementary School, Wyoming County

● Shadow, a male Black Labrador, at Moorefield Elementary School, Hardy County

● Jet, a male Yellow Labrador, at Spring Mills High School, Berkeley County

● Kylo, a male Black Labrador, at Lenore PK-8 School, Mingo County

● Winnie, a female Apricot and White Labradoodle, at Wayne Elementary School, Wayne County

● Kasha, a female Yellow Labrador, at Green Bank Elementary-Middle School, Pocahontas County

● Marshal, a male Cream Labradoodle, at Hinton Area Elementary School, Summers County

● Louie, a male Yellow Labrador, at Bridgeview Elementary School, Kanawha County

● Oakley, a male Apricot and Cream Labradoodle, at Oakvale Elementary School, Mercer County

● Ruby, a female Golden Retriever, at Greenbrier East High School, Greenbrier County

● Malfoy, a male Yellow Labrador, at Chapmanville Intermediate School, Logan County

● Tora, a female Yellow Labrador, at Elkins High School, Randolph County

● Skye, a female Brown Labradoodle, at Berkeley Springs High School, Morgan County

● Penny, a female Yellow Labrador, at Pendleton County Middle/High School, Pendleton County

● Nutter, a male Brown Labrador, at Ravenswood High School, Jackson County

● Meadow, a female Yellow Labrador, at Washington Lands Elementary School, Marshall County



More information about Friends With Paws can be found in Communities In Schools: Friends With Paws, a documentary produced by West Virginia Public Broadcasting. Click HERE to view the documentary. A 2019 study published by the National Institute of Health found that a dog’s presence in the classroom promotes a positive mood and provides significant anti-stress effects on the body.



In addition, research shows that the simple act of petting animals releases an automatic relaxation response. Therapy animals’ lower anxiety and help people relax, provide comfort, reduce loneliness, and increase mental stimulation. They are also shown to lower blood pressure and improve cardiovascular health, reduce the number of medications some people need, help control breathing in those with anxiety, and diminish overall physical pain, among other profound benefits. ###
Fake_probability: 0.0015189838595688343
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiTmh0dHBzOi8vd3d3Lm55dGltZXMuY29tLzIwMjQvMDMvMDkvc3R5bGUvYXV0aXNtLWZhbWlseS1kb2dzLW5ldy15b3JrLWNpdHkuaHRtbNIBAA?oc=5
Title: My Autistic Son, the Unleashed Dogs of Manhattan, and Me - The New York Times
Text: My young adult son Jason and I are crossing Riverside Drive to get to the park on the other side.

This part of Riverside Drive comprises four lanes separated by a median that’s too narrow to make for a good stopping place; the whizzing cars and buses make you feel like either your toes or your heels or even both might get grazed as you wait for the light to change in your favor. I thus always plan to make the journey in one go.

However, Jason has nonspeaking autism, and we don’t know why he does some of the things he does. Sometimes we’ll get to the other side, and just as I breathe a sigh of relief, he’ll turn and run back into the middle of the street.

Today, we manage to complete the crossing safely.

Jason’s brand of autism includes sensory dysregulation. One day, the vroom of a motorcycle might cause him to collapse, screaming and clutching his head. The next day, the same unmufflered chopper elicits no response.

He can talk, but most of what he says — “Hi! Hi!” and “Duck in the water” — tends not to be functional speech. He will, however, scream the word “loud” when a noise bothers him. And when he’s afraid something might hurt him, he will yell, “Hurt you!” (He mixes up pronouns.)
Fake_probability: 0.999887228012085
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMif2h0dHBzOi8vd3d3LnRpbGxpcy5zZW5hdGUuZ292LzIwMjMvNi90aWxsaXMtYmx1bWVudGhhbC1sZWFkLWJpcGFydGlzYW4tbGVnaXNsYXRpb24tdG8tcHJvdmlkZS1zZXJ2aWNlLWRvZ3MtdG8tZWxpZ2libGUtdmV0ZXJhbnPSAQA?oc=5
Title: Tillis, Blumenthal Lead Bipartisan Legislation to Provide Service Dogs to Eligible Veterans - Thom Tillis
Text: WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Thom Tillis (R-NC), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), and Martin Heinrich (D-NM) introduced the Service Dogs Assisting Veterans (SAVES) Act, bipartisan legislation that would establish a program to award grants to nonprofit organizations to assist them in carrying out programs to provide service dogs to eligible veterans. The legislation builds on the Puppies Assisting Wounded Servicemembers (PAWS) for Veterans Therapy Act that was introduced by Senator Tillis and signed into law.

It is estimated that upwards of 20% of Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans have PTSD and more than 450,000 service members have been diagnosed with at least one traumatic brain injury over the past two decades. As a result, these veterans suffer from alarmingly high rates of depression, anxiety, joblessness, homelessness, substance use disorder and other negative behaviors. Far too often, they resort to taking their own lives – roughly 20 veterans die by suicide each day, nearly one an hour.

“Long after the fighting on the battlefield ends, too many of the courageous servicemembers come home and continue to battle against enemies that many consider just as insidious as those with guns, grenades, and rockets. That is why in 2021, I introduced the PAWS Act that created a pilot program to provide canine training to eligible veterans, but it is clear we must continue to build on that effort to ensure this program is expanded to veterans in need,” said Senator Tillis. “The SAVES Act will allow more veterans who are struggling with the invisible wounds of war to receive service dogs that could ultimately save their lives. We must repay the debt to the men and women who served our country, I hope congress quickly passes this legislation to provide them with his important resource.”

“Service dogs offer invaluable support and comfort to our veterans. When our heroes struggle with PTSD and other service-related injuries during their adjustment to life at home, canine companions are right by their side,” said Senator Blumenthal. “These grants for nonprofits will provide veterans with the resources they need to prioritize their health and wellbeing. I’m proud to join Senator Tillis in this bipartisan effort.”

“From mobility to mental health, I’ve seen firsthand the meaningful change service dogs can have for veterans,” said Senator Cramer. “We should build on the success they have had by making more well-trained service dogs available to veterans who need them.”

“Our veterans have made tremendous sacrifices for our nation, and we need to do everything in our power to make sure they have the support they need and have earned,” said Heinrich. “I’m proud to join this bipartisan legislation to make sure our nation’s heroes can access the companionship and therapeutic support of service dogs.”

Under the SAVES Act, nonprofit organizations would be required to submit an application to the Secretary that includes a description of the training that will be provided by the organization to eligible veterans; the training of dogs that will serve as service dogs; the aftercare services that the organization will provide for the service dogs and eligible Veteran; the plan for publicizing the availability of service dogs through a marketing campaign; the committee of the organization to have humane standards or animals. Nonprofit organizations would also need to certify that they are accredited by Assistance Dogs International or another widely recognized accreditation organization.

The SAVES Act is supported by Vietnams Veterans of America, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Blinded Veterans Association, National Military Families Association, TREA: The Enlisted Association, Jewish War Veterans of America, K9s for Warriors, Mission Roll Call, Kayas K9, Semper K9 Assistance Dogs, and Dog Tag Buddies.

“Service Dogs have a proven track record of providing life-saving assistance to veterans,” said K9s For Warriors CEO, Carl Cricco. “The SAVES Act will ultimately put more Service Dogs in the hands of veterans in critical need, allowing them to regain their independence and reintegrate into civilian life. We applaud Senators Tillis, Blumenthal, Cramer, and Heinrich for their commitment to our nation's heroes and urge Congress to pass this important legislation without delay.”

“Service dogs provide critical assistance to disabled veterans with the greatest support needs, allowing them increased independence in their daily lives,” said Associate Executive Director of Government Relations for Paralyzed Veterans of America Heather Ansley. “We appreciate the efforts of Senators Tillis, Blumenthal, Cramer, and Heinrich to support veterans with disabilities through this important legislation."

“The tremendous benefits and transformative effects service dogs provide to veterans experiencing visual impairments, as well as those diagnosed with other physical and/or psychological wounds of military service is becoming more and more evident,” said Donald Overton, Executive Director of the Blinded Veterans Association. “Improved independence, increased social interaction, reduced stress, and enhanced family relationships are but a few of the benefits realized by service dog handlers. We express our gratitude to Senators Tillis, Blumenthal, Cramer, and Heinrich for their bipartisan introduction of the SAVES Act and call on Congressional leadership to prioritize this initiative, thus honoring the tremendous sacrifice our nation’s blinded and disabled veterans have made in defense of our great nation.”

“Veterans deserve every possible resource to improve their mental health and well being. Senator Tillis’ legislation will do that. Not only will it help mitigate the circumstances that lead to Veteran suicide, but service dogs have also been proven to get Veterans back to leading productive lives.” – Aniela Szymanski, Chief Policy Officer of the Chief Warrant and Warrant Officers Association of the US Coast Guard.

Read text of the bill here.

###
Fake_probability: 0.9999356269836426
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiOmh0dHBzOi8vY29va2luZy5ueXRpbWVzLmNvbS9yZWNpcGVzLzEwMTM2NjQtbWluaS1jb3JuLWRvZ3PSAQA?oc=5
Title: Mini Corn Dogs Recipe - NYT Cooking - cooking.nytimes.com
Text: My daughter requested corn dogs for her birthday and these turned out great. I thinned the batter out with just a little bit more milk so it would coat the hot dog better (when the batter was thicker it kept coming off one side as I tried to roll the other side in the batter). Also there must have been an air bubble or something in the way I battered them because they would always roll to one side so to brown/fry the other side I had to hold them down in the oil a bit. Would make these again.

Is this helpful?
Fake_probability: 0.9999277591705322
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiYmh0dHBzOi8vbmV3cy55YWxlLmVkdS8yMDI0LzAzLzA1L25vdmVsLWNhbmNlci12YWNjaW5lLW9mZmVycy1uZXctaG9wZS1kb2dzLWFuZC10aG9zZS13aG8tbG92ZS10aGVt0gEA?oc=5
Title: Novel cancer vaccine offers new hope for dogs — and those who love them - Yale News
Text: During a sunny morning on Florida’s Gulf Coast last month, an 11-year-old golden retriever named Hunter bounded through a pine grove. Snatching his favorite toy, a well-chewed tennis ball attached to a short rope, he rolled through the tall grass, with an energy that seemed inexhaustible. A passerby might not have even noticed that this playful golden has only three legs.

For Deana Hudgins, the dog’s owner, it seems almost unthinkable that two years ago Hunter was diagnosed with osteosarcoma, a form of bone cancer that kills upwards of 65% of the dogs it afflicts within 12 months, in his left front leg.

For many years Hunter worked alongside his owner as a search-and-rescue dog, helping find victims of building collapses and other disasters. He no longer performs those duties, but does still help Hudgins train other dogs. The energetic golden can also run, fetch, and catch as well as ever.

And two years since his initial diagnosis, Hunter has no signs of cancer. The dog’s life-saving treatment incorporated typical approaches, including amputation of the left leg and chemotherapy. But Hunter also received a novel therapy — a cancer vaccine developed by Yale’s Mark Mamula.

If we can provide some benefit, some relief — a pain-free life — that is the best outcome that we could ever have.” Mark Mamula, Yale School of Medicine

The treatment, a form of immunotherapy that is currently under review by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), which regulates animal treatments, has been subject to multiple clinical trials over the past eight years. And the results are promising; for hundreds of dogs, including Hunter, the vaccine has proved effective.

Mamula, a professor of medicine (rheumatology) at Yale School of Medicine, believes the vaccine offers a badly needed weapon in the fight against canine cancer.

“Dogs, just like humans, get cancer spontaneously; they grow and metastasize and mutate, just like human cancers do,” said Mamula. “My own dog died of an inoperable cancer about 11 years ago. Dogs just like humans suffer greatly from their cancers.

“If we can provide some benefit, some relief — a pain-free life — that is the best outcome that we could ever have.”

Even as recently as a decade ago, Mamula didn’t anticipate that he would one day develop a cancer vaccine for dogs. A rheumatology researcher, he studies autoimmune diseases like lupus and Type 1 diabetes and how the body gives rise to them.

But that work eventually led him to cancer research as well.

Autoimmune diseases, Mamula says, are characterized by the immune system attacking the body’s own tissues; in the case of Type 1 diabetes, the immune system targets cells in the pancreas.

Then several years ago, using what they knew about autoimmunity, Mamula and his research team developed a potential cancer treatment that they say initiates a targeted immune response against tumors.

“In many ways tumors are like the targets of autoimmune diseases,” he said. “Cancer cells are your own tissue and are attacked by the immune system. The difference is we want the immune system to attack a tumor.”

It was a chance meeting with a veterinary oncologist soon thereafter that made Mamula think that this novel treatment might work well in dogs.

Targeting tumors

There are about 90 million dogs, living in 65 million households, in the United States alone. Around one in four dogs will get cancer. Among dogs 10 years or older, that ratio jumps to around one in two.

Yet the therapies used to treat these cancers remain fairly antiquated, Mamula says.

“There have been very few new canine cancer treatments developed in decades — it’s a field that is begging for improvement,” he said.

In 2015, Mamula met a veterinary oncologist named Gerry Post. During his 35-year career Post has treated cancer in snakes, turtles, and zoo animals. But most of his patients are dogs and cats.

Through conversations with Post, Mamula realized that it wouldn’t be difficult to make the leap from human to dog cancers. Together they would launch an early-phase study into Mamula’s dog cancer vaccine.

“Dog and human cancers are quite similar in a number of ways,” said Post, chief medical officer of One Health Company, a canine cancer treatment group, and an adjunct professor of comparative medicine at Yale School of Medicine. “Whether it’s how the cancers appear under the microscope, how the cancers behave, respond to chemotherapy, develop resistance, and metastasize.”

After talking with a veterinary oncologist, Mamula realized that it wouldn’t be difficult to make the leap from addressing human cancers to dog cancers.

Even the types of cancers that afflict dogs and humans are similar. Like humans, dogs can get melanoma, breast cancer, colon cancer, and osteosarcoma, among others.

When it comes to curing these diseases, these similarities bring an important benefit: understanding cancer in one species will help scientists understand cancer in the other. And treatments that work well for one may actually work well for both.

Several types of cancers in both humans and dogs have been found to overexpress proteins known as epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2). These include colorectal cancer, breast cancer, and osteosarcoma. One type of treatment currently given to human patients with these cancers involves monoclonal antibodies, proteins that can bind to and affect the function of EGFR and/or HER2. However, patients can develop a resistance to them and their effects wane over time.

For their treatment, Mamula and his team wanted to take a different approach.

Monoclonal antibody treatments are produced from one immune cell and bind to one part of the EGFR/HER2 molecules, but Mamula and his team wanted to induce a polyclonal response.

Doing so, he says, would create antibodies from multiple immune cells, rather than just one, which could bind to multiple parts of the EGFR/HER2 molecules instead of a single area. This would, in theory, reduce the likelihood of developing resistance.

The research team, led by Hester Doyle and Renelle Gee, who are both members of Mamula’s Yale lab, with assistance from the New Haven-based biotechnology company L2 Diagnostics, LLC, tested many different candidates in order to find just the right compound. They eventually found one.

After first testing it in mice, and finding promising results, they initiated their first clinical trial in dogs in 2016.

‘ I was willing to try whatever I could’

Deana Hudgins knew there was something special about Hunter before she brought him home as an 8-week-old puppy, back in 2012, and began training him to be her next search-and-rescue partner.

The smallest of 18 puppies from two litters, Hunter wasn’t the obvious choice when she began looking for a partner.

“He was the runt,” said Hudgins, who has been training search-and-rescue dogs since 2001 and now runs her own company, the Center for Forensic Training and Education, which provides canine training in Ohio and Florida. “But in his case, it made him a little scrappy. He was small but very confident and very brave.

“When all of the other puppies were sleeping at the end of the day, he was still running around, climbing all of the toys, retrieving things. We need confident puppies, and that’s what he possessed.”

By the time he was a year old, Hunter began aiding searches at sites across the United States, working with local law enforcement and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), following natural disasters. His first search, in 2014, was at the site of a mudslide in Oso, Washington that killed 43 people. In his final FEMA search, he helped search for victims of the devastating condominium collapse in the Miami suburb of Surfside, Florida, in June 2021. Hunter was involved in hundreds of searches in the years between.

In 2022, Hunter was still very active — and had just earned another service certification — when Hudgins noticed that he seemed uncharacteristically sore following a five-day training class.

“I’ve always been very proactive with my dogs because I spend every day with them, and so I notice very little things,” she said. “And he’s not a dog to limp.”

A veterinarian assumed that Hunter had strained something, suggesting anti-inflammatories, but Hudgins insisted on an x-ray. The test revealed the osteosarcoma in Hunter’s leg.

After doing a lot of research, and consulting with different veterinary groups about what steps to take, Hudgins decided that amputation offered the best chance for Hunter’s survival, along with chemotherapy.

But during that research, Hudgins had also come across Mamula’s vaccine trial. So she reached out to a colleague, James Hatch, a former Navy SEAL who trained dogs in the military and whose nonprofit supports service dogs. Hudgins knew that Hatch also happened to be at Yale, where he is a student in the Eli Whitney Students Program.

“I was willing to try whatever I could to keep [Hunter] around as long as possible,” said Hudgins. “We ask a lot of our working dogs. They work in environments that are very dangerous and often deadly. And my promise to all of them is I will do whatever I have to do to give them the best, healthiest, longest life possible. Dogs don’t survive this disease so there was no downside to me for trying the vaccine.”

Hatch connected her with Mamula, and soon Hunter was part of the clinical trial. He received his first vaccine dose ahead of his amputation surgery, his second before initiating chemotherapy, and a booster last summer.

Twenty-two months since his cancer diagnosis, Hunter is now considered a long-term osteosarcoma survivor and Hudgins says he’s thriving.

“He adjusted very well to his front limb amputation,” she said. “He continues to run around the yard. He swims in the pool. He comes with me to training and chases the other dogs around the yard.”

During a recent morning in Florida, Hunter drifted toward a nearby pond while playing outside. Hudgins, knowing the potential risks of straying too close to a pond in Florida (“There are alligators everywhere.”), quickly called him back. Hunter immediately returned to her.

“From a very young age, Hunter wanted to learn the rules of the game,” she said. “He was eager to go to work every day. I am very, very lucky to have been able to be his partner for 10 years. Hunter is one of those once-in-a-lifetime dogs.”

‘ A whole new toolbox’

Hunter’s positive response to the treatment is one many other dogs have experienced as well.

To date, more than 300 dogs have been treated with the vaccine during a series of clinical trials, which are still ongoing at 10 sites in the U.S. and Canada. The findings, which have been published in a peer-reviewed study, have shown that the treatment creates antibodies that are able to home in on and bind to tumors, and then interfere with the signaling pathways responsible for tumor growth.

According to the research team, the vaccine increases the 12-month survival rates of dogs with certain cancers from about 35% to 60%. For many of the dogs, the treatment also shrinks tumors.

While future studies will determine if the vaccine can reduce the incidence of cancer in healthy dogs, the treatment for now remains a therapeutic treatment option after a cancer diagnosis has been made.

Witnessing the happiness that successful therapies provide to families with dogs is incredibly rewarding.

But even this represents something more than just “a new tool” in the fight against canine cancer, Post says. It’s a whole new toolbox.

“And in veterinary oncology, our toolbox is much smaller than that of human oncology,” he said. “This vaccine is truly revolutionary. I couldn’t be more excited to be a veterinary oncologist.”

Mamula has created a company, called TheraJan, which aims to eventually produce the vaccine. Last year, the company (whose name is inspired, in part, by the late Yale immunologist Charles Janeway, who was Mamula’s mentor) won a Faculty Innovation Award from Yale Ventures, a university initiative that supports innovation and entrepreneurship on campus and beyond.

While launching clinical tests of the vaccine’s effectiveness in humans may be a logical future step, for now Mamula is focused on getting USDA approval of the vaccine for dogs and distributed for wider use.

No matter where it goes, it’s a project close to his heart.

“I get many emails from grateful dog owners who had been told that their pets had weeks or months to live but who are now two or three years past their cancer diagnosis,” he said. “It’s a program that’s not only valuable to me as a dog lover. Witnessing the happiness that successful therapies provide to families with dogs is incredibly rewarding.”

And once the vaccine becomes available for public use, he says, for working dogs like Hunter it will always be free of charge.
Fake_probability: 0.0001085058247554116
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiQmh0dHBzOi8vd3d3Lm55dGltZXMuY29tLzIwMjQvMDMvMTQvbWFnYXppbmUvbHV4dXJ5LWRvZy1ob3RlbHMuaHRtbNIBAA?oc=5
Title: My Goldendoodle Spent a Week at Some Luxury Dog 'Hotels.' I Tagged Along. - The New York Times
Text: My plan was to stay with Steve at a string of dog hotels — yes, for dogs only — in the Mid-Atlantic region, not too far from where I live. Putting the plan into action had required making a series of deeply embarrassing phone calls. My requests were sometimes met with awkward silences, which would be followed by questions along the lines of: “You sure you want to do that?” I tried to explain that staying at dog hotels would take me to the heart of some questions that I’d been thinking about a lot in recent months. How did humans start catering to the whims of canines rather than the other way around? And what if, somewhere along the way, we all became a little too obsessed with our dogs?
Fake_probability: 0.9999798536300659
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiRGh0dHBzOi8vd3d3Lm55dGltZXMuY29tLzIwMjMvMTEvMjgvc2NpZW5jZS9sb25nZXZpdHktZHJ1Z3MtZG9ncy5odG1s0gEA?oc=5
Title: Could Longevity Drugs for Dogs Extend Your Pet’s Life? - The New York Times
Text: The life of a pet dog follows a predictable trajectory. Over time, the floppy-eared puppy that keeps falling asleep in his food bowl will become a lanky-legged adolescent with an insatiable interest in squirrels — before eventually settling into adulthood as a canine creature of habit, with a carefully chosen napping location and a well-rehearsed greeting ritual.

But as the years progress, his joints will stiffen and his muzzle will gray. And one day, which will inevitably arrive too soon, his wagging tail will finally still.

“When you adopt a dog, you’re adopting future heartbreak,” said Emilie Adams, a New Yorker who owns three Rhodesian Ridgebacks. “It’s worth it over time because you just have so much love between now and when they go. But their life spans are shorter than ours.”

In recent years, scientists have been chasing after drugs that might stave off this heartbreak by extending the lives of our canine companions. On Tuesday, the biotech company Loyal announced that it had moved one step closer to bringing one such drug to market. “The data you provided are sufficient to show that there is a reasonable expectation of effectiveness,” an official at the U.S. Food and Drug Administration informed the company in a recent letter. (Loyal provided a copy of the letter to The Times.)
Fake_probability: 0.9999257326126099
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiZ2h0dHBzOi8vd3d3LmNoZXZyb24uY29tL25ld3Nyb29tLzIwMjQvcTEvcGF3c2l0aXZlLXJlc3VsdHMtc3VwZXItc25pZmZpbmctZG9ncy1maW5kLXRpbnktcGlwZWxpbmUtbGVha3PSAQA?oc=5
Title: Pawsitive results: super sniffing dogs find tiny pipeline leaks - Chevron
Text: A team of leak-sniffing dogs are hot on the trail of potential damage to aging pipes in southeast Texas.

The specially trained pups, part of the Black Creek K-9 Pipeline Leak Detection squad, monitor three pipeline systems that run through an 18-mile-long corridor. The dogs work with a handler who keeps them safe and motivated.

During their first year on the job, the keen-nosed canines discovered a leak the size of a pinhole on a pipe buried underground.
Fake_probability: 3.5451936128083616e-05
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiM2h0dHBzOi8vd3d3LnNwYWNlLmNvbS8yMDE3LXRvdGFsLXNvbGFyLWVjbGlwc2UtZG9nc9IBAA?oc=5
Title: My dogs and I watched the 2017 total solar eclipse, but we won't travel for this one - Space.com
Text: Before April 8's epic total solar eclipse sweeps over us, let's take a ride in the wayback machine to Aug. 21, 2017, when the last such event graced the Lower 48.

Nicknamed the Great American Eclipse, the 71-mile-wide (115 kilometers) shadow band stretched coast to coast through 14 states, from Oregon to South Carolina, and was observed by an estimated 215 million Americans, either directly or electronically. NASA reported that 4.4 million people alone were watching its 2017 TV coverage halfway through the eclipse, representing the largest livestream event in the space agency's history.

My humble cabin in the town of Sisters, in the High Desert of Central Oregon — just east of the Cascade Range near the outdoor playground of Bend — became the ideal vantage point for a memorable experience with my loyal English Setters, Balen and Copper, who were both at my side to witness day turning to night.

Related: Total solar eclipse 2024: Live updates

Map showing the path of totality for 2017's "Great American Total Solar Eclipse." (Image credit: Fred Espenak/MrEclipse.com)

Forty miles (64 km) north of my location, centered in the coveted shadow zone, was the city of Madras, mostly known for its state prison and excellent Mexican restaurants. Eclipse chasers from around the country flocked to Oregon, with its wide-open inland spaces and likelihood of spotless azure skies to behold the celestial spectacle. Plus, Oregon was the first North American mainland stop on the eclipse itinerary, and you know how much we all love to be first for anything!

Area residents were warned months ahead about the potentially catastrophic gridlock that might occur as throngs of scientists, astronomers, media members and eclipse lovers congregated in this part of the Beaver State, with some estimates climbing as high as 200,000 extra bodies and their vehicles from the Portland metro areas clogging the lone highway of north-central Oregon.

The morning of the 2017 eclipse — a Monday — dawned with blue summer skies as predicted. After the dogs were fed and exercised on the lawn, I prepared a special "Total Solar Eclipse" blackberry waffle breakfast to fortify myself for the upcoming cosmic pyrotechnics. I even snapped a fun photo of Balen and Copper wearing officially approved eclipse eyewear, even though pets are usually unfazed by all the fuss since they instinctually know not to stare straight at the sun.

Get the Space.com Newsletter Breaking space news, the latest updates on rocket launches, skywatching events and more! Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors

Balen and Copper trying on official 2017 eclipse glasses for fun! (Image credit: Jeff Spry)

I was a seasoned solar eclipse junkie in 2017, having witnessed the 1995 total eclipse in Thailand, where I was poolside at a cool Japanese hotel in the city of Nakhon Sawan. It was a crystal-clear day in Central Thailand, and I honored totality by thrusting a teakwood cobra walking stick with red stone eyes into the air as a chorus of firecrackers and blaring horns erupted around us.

A saw another one a few years later in Hawaii, from the rocking deck of a Pacific Whale Foundation boat off the coast of Maui. It was during this celebrated solar eclipse event in 1998 that I silently cursed the cloudy skies for their interruption of my astronomical ecstasy. My spirits remained high, though, especially when the cheerful crew broke out an enticing spread of tropical fruits and macadamia nut muffins while we saluted the darkened canopy with a festive champagne toast.

But being home in my own backyard, just at the edge of the path of totality, in 2017 was a relaxing affair I couldn't pass up — a better option than running the risk of being hopelessly stuck on Highway 97 toward Madras for hours while trying to increase my time of totality by another minute or so. Local wildfire evacuations and highway closures for travelers driving east and west over the pass had prevented our quaint western town from being completely invaded.

After settling into my carefully placed Adirondack chair beneath a cluster of tall pine trees and checking my watch for the hundredth time in the past hour, I watched the moon's disk inch its way across the sun's shining yellow face, gradually eating away more chunks in its transit.

Related: Here are the most amazing photos and videos of the 2017 solar eclipse

Composite image of the total solar eclipse over Madras, Oregon on Aug. 21, 2017. (Image credit: NASA)

The moment of totality arrived at 10:20 a.m. It was as if a heavenly rheostat was being turned, shutting off the sun's glaring rays as the silvery corona burst forth in all its glory. For 36 short seconds, time seemed to stand still. The dogs were a bit restless as they tracked confused birds returning to the trees. An eerie hush descended in the moon's umbral shadow, and temperatures swiftly plunged.

However, it was all over in the blink of an eye, and daylight predictably returned to the pine-studded yard. Looking down, Balen had curled up on the green grass and was peacefully napping. Copper, being just a few months old and bristling with youthful energy, casually tried to eat his eclipse glasses.

Oregon is nowhere near the path of totality for the April 8 event that millions will gaze up at to absorb its awe and wonder. But I'm still planning on breaking out my old 2017 eclipse glasses to see Oregon's partial eclipse with the Setters once more, which will only be visible at 37%.

The dogs are most likely relieved they won’t again suffer the humiliation of being posed wearing solar eclipse glasses, and I honestly don't blame them.
Fake_probability: 0.0002685857471078634
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiaGh0dHBzOi8vd3d3LnNtY2dvdi5vcmcvcGFya3MvbmV3cy9ib2FyZC1hcHByb3Zlcy1uZXctZG9nLWNhbXBpbmctbWVtb3JpYWwtY291bnR5LXBhcmstc3RhcnRpbmctc2VwdGVtYmVy0gEA?oc=5
Title: Board Approves New Dog Camping in Memorial County Park Starting in September - San Mateo County
Text: On July 25, the Board of Supervisors approved a proposal by San Mateo County Parks to add campsites allowing on-leash dogs in a designated area of Memorial County Park this September. It is the first San Mateo County Park to offer camping with dogs.

During the past six years the Department has evaluated locations where dog recreation could be expanded. A recent pilot study of off-leash dog walking on designated trails in Quarry Park in El Granada was completed and study findings were also presented to the Board at the same meeting. On-leash dog walking is allowed at Pillar Point Bluff, Devil’s Slide Trail, Coyote Point Recreation Area, and Junipero Serra Park.

In early September eight tent campsites allowing dogs on leash will be available for reservation in the Huckleberry Area in Memorial Park. Seven of the family sites can accommodate up to 12 people and three dogs; one will be ADA accessible. Each campsite includes two tables, one barbecue, one fire pit, and a hitching post for dogs. The eighth is designated as flexible space for either camping to accommodate up to 30 campers and five dogs, or for 50 picnickers.

The dog camp sites are close to dog walking trails in the Loma Mar area of Memorial Park where dogs are allowed on leash. Dogs are not allowed in other areas of Memorial, including Pescadero Creek, and Pescadero and Sam McDonald parks.

The Board also approved a dog camping fee of $5 per night in addition to the resident/non-resident rate structure. Per night campsites with dogs will be $45 per night for county residents and $50 for non-residents. The fee will help off-set costs related to dog waste supplies, washing stations, and administrative fees.
Fake_probability: 0.9998593330383301
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiXWh0dHBzOi8vd3d3LnN0YXRuZXdzLmNvbS8yMDI0LzA0LzA1L2RvZ3MtcHJvemFjLWZsdW94ZXRpbmUtcmlzaW5nLXVzZS1yZWZsZWN0cy1vd25lci1hbnhpZXR5L9IBAA?oc=5
Title: Dogs on Prozac: What pet anti-anxiety meds reveal about owners - STAT
Text: Your dog is probably on Prozac. Experts say that says more about the American mental health crisis than pets

Dogs, our sunny, selfless shadows, crave little more than a daily walk, a treat or two, and their human’s happiness. But increasingly, their own happiness is the topic of concern in veterinarian offices, dog parks, and internet forums.

Prozac prescriptions for dogs are on the rise, veterinarians across the country acknowledge, along with a myriad of cheaper generic mood stabilizers sold for humans but applied to pets’ separation anxiety, socialization fears, biting habits, or other problematic behavior.

advertisement

That increase, experts told STAT, says more about the human mental health crisis in America — and the ready availability of inexpensive generic medicines. Americans have reported more depression and anxiety in recent years, and everyone is talking more about it. But while behavioral specialists, therapists, and counseling services have struggled to keep up with the onslaught, relatively inexpensive antidepressants haven’t.

“The human world has become more attuned to mental health. Since Covid, we’re talking about it,” said Melissa Bain, a veterinarian focused on behavioral medicine at the University of California, Davis. “When we start to recognize things in humans, we recognize it in our dogs too.”

We need to talk about Buddy

The apparent mental health crisis in pets comes in the midst of a very clear human one. Americans’ depression and anxiety rates hit record highs during the pandemic and keep moving upwards. Prescriptions for mood stabilizers like Prozac and Zoloft surged during Covid-19 — on top of steady increases since the ’90s — sometimes triggering shortages of the medications.

advertisement

Newsletters Sign up for Daily Recap All the health and medical news you need today, in one email Please enter a valid email address. Privacy Policy

Meanwhile, licensed providers are struggling to meet the demand for psychotherapy and other behavioral health needs, while federal regulators are pressing for more affordable access to these services.

“Mental health is a sock that [we] stretched out, not a rubber band,” said Ken Duckworth, chief medical officer of the National Alliance on Mental Illness. “People have not snapped back to a pre-Covid baseline.”

At the same time, there is a glaring bottleneck in services. The demand for psychological support and psychiatry far outstrips the number of health care workers in the field. Booking appointments can take weeks to months for many Americans, and perceived improvements even longer. Organizations like the American Psychiatric Association are touting the benefits of therapy animals and nature therapy, while proclaiming the mental health benefits of pet ownership.

Pet psychiatry mirrors human trends in several ways. Veterinarians across the country say they are writing more anti-anxiety prescriptions, though it’s difficult to quantify the increase in prescribing trends exactly. Veterinarians in five different states told STAT they were seeing steadily increased pet prescriptions for popular mood stabilizers like Prozac, though it is virtually impossible to get a full picture of the trend nationally since prescribing data for pets is scattered (and usually under their owners’ names).

As in the human world, oftentimes a prescription — particularly for a cheap, generic anxiety pill — is easier and more affordable than the hundreds to thousands of dollars that training classes or boutique behaviorist practices that vets also recommend can cost.

Generic versions of these medications — especially the lowest-dose versions that many of our smaller, furrier friends are prescribed — typically retail between $10 and $15 a month. The pet-approved version, Reconcile, is slightly more expensive. Training courses and specialized behaviorists, meanwhile, can run into thousands of dollars. For many people, it’s an easy choice.

Our converging prescription worlds

Dogs are taking, essentially, the exact same drugs for depression and anxiety that humans are. One of the most commonly used antidepressants — in both the human and animal realms — is Prozac and its generic version, fluoxetine. Reddit boards for reactive pets and veterinary questions host hundreds of posts about pets’ successes or struggles with that, Zoloft, Paxil, Celexa, and their generic versions.

Analysts expect the global market for these medicines to continue growing from roughly $11.6 billion in 2019 to more than $18 billion by 2027.

UPCOMING EVENT Connect with today's innovators & tomorrow's thought leaders We're hosting events nationwide (and virtually) to tackle the biggest questions in health and medicine. Browse our upcoming events to see what's on the horizon.

They’re easy to access because they’ve been around for years — in fact, little in the world of psychiatric medicine has changed in the last two decades. Once Prozac, Zoloft, and other selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors went generic, the efficacy and low prices meant few doctors were willing to put their patients on name brands — and few big drugmakers were enticed into developing next-generation options.

When new drugs do hit the market, they’re often narrowly approved (like the Sage Therapeutics medicine for postpartum depression) and pricier. The same is true in the doggy drug world, where there is just Reconcile, the one FDA-approved fluoxetine option — cleared specifically for separation anxiety.

The demand among pets isn’t cause for concern about shortages, experts were quick to say. Currently, no antidepressant is on the national drug shortage list. Zoloft and its generic version sertraline was, back in 2020, when a combination of surging demand and supply chain interruptions amid pandemic shutdowns triggered problems securing enough of the active ingredients, which are usually manufactured in India or China. Pfizer, Zoloft’s manufacturer, was able to ramp up production within months.

“We definitely have had shortages of basically all of the big SSRIs — whether that’s fluoxetine, paroxetine [Paxil], sertraline, over time,” said Erin Fox, a University of Utah pharmacist who tracks shortage problems. “It hasn’t been too many, but when they happen, they definitely seem to last for a while.”

Those can lead to patients — human or canine — moving to different doses or even other medications while manufacturing smoothes out. In one case, with a lesser-used antidepressant called nefazodone, it took nearly two years for its single manufacturer to reverse shortages.

“Part of that is just because of the generic landscape and so many different products being gone,” said Fox, referring to a lessened appetite to make cheap generic drugs. But she also warned that we could see more shortages for all types of medications in the coming years as the FDA ramps up pandemic-delayed or suspended factory inspections that could flag problems and subsequently stall production.

“It goes hand in hand with an increase in demand for psychiatric services. But some [media] outlets present [increased prescriptions] as a secondary problem, which don’t quite see that,” said Petros Levounis, president of the American Psychiatric Association, referring to a narrative about the broader mental health crisis. “I don’t think you would ever say something like ‘we see an increase in people’s hypertension, and we see an increase in the hypertensive medications.’ That just goes hand in hand.”

Is this trend about us?

Veterinarians who spoke to STAT chalk the rise in pet psychiatry up to a number of factors: We care more, as a culture, about animal welfare these days. There also has been a persistent pilgrimage of rural rescue animals plucked from southern states and shipped to cities with more capacity and resources for adoption — but also far more people, noises, and environmental stressors. Pandemic shutdowns then exacerbated the trend, with record adoption rates sometimes clearing out whole shelters.

“It’s not surprising that they are struggling in that urban environment, because they weren’t born into it,” said Christine Calder of the American College of Veterinary Behaviorists and owner of Calder Veterinary Behavior Services outside of Portland, Maine. “There are more and more that are on medications; it is also becoming more acceptable.”

But increasingly, human psychologists are studying how companion animals impact our health — and how we impact theirs.

The field has grown exponentially over the past two decades, said Lori Kogan, a Colorado State University psychologist who chairs the human-animal interaction department of the American Psychological Association.

“There’s so many similarities in people’s emotions towards their children and emotions towards their pets,” said Kogan. “We might be, for example, overly anxious about their well-being, just as a lot of people are about their children.”

Some have attempted to study how pet ownership has changed since the pandemic and whether man and best friend helped each other through shutdown solitude and stressors from illness to job loss and anxiety. While pets are broadly considered beneficial to peoples’ mental health, the reverse — how our health impacts theirs — has been sparsely researched until recently.

The benefits for humans seem clear: 84% of pet owners say their smaller housemates have a mostly positive impact on their mental health, according to the American Psychiatric Association’s March 2024 mental health poll, done in partnership with the American Veterinary Medical Association.

In the United Kingdom, psychologists asked roughly 5,000 pet owners how they viewed their own mental health and the welfare of their cats and dogs following strict early shutdowns. The results suggested that when owners themselves felt mentally down, they saw improvements in their pets’ state of being — or at least thought they did.

“It might be that those in greatest need for social support, as evidenced by poorer mental health scores since lockdown, are more empathic towards their animals’ needs,” the British researchers wrote.

Of course, they said, there are limits to this trend: Most of the survey respondents were women and many of them worked outside the home before shutdowns. The survey suggests not that every pet owner became more attuned to their companions’ wellbeing, but that certain populations — likely higher-income people with office jobs that could transfer to stay-at-home work — certainly did.

The human-animal behavioral health bond is a relatively limited field of research compared to human mental health research, but Kogan says it is growing rapidly — and evolving.

“There’s more and more focus on how do we make this mutually beneficial?” she said. “When animal-assisted therapy started, it was very focused on what can animals do for people. And now it’s much more: What can we do for each other?”
Fake_probability: 0.5920280814170837
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiaGh0dHBzOi8vYWJjbmV3cy5nby5jb20vR01BL0xpdmluZy9hbmltYWwtc2hlbHRlci1jZWxlYnJhdGVzLWRvZ3MtYWRvcHRlZC10cnVlLW1pcmFjbGUvc3Rvcnk_aWQ9MTA1OTE2MzU00gFsaHR0cHM6Ly9hYmNuZXdzLmdvLmNvbS9hbXAvR01BL0xpdmluZy9hbmltYWwtc2hlbHRlci1jZWxlYnJhdGVzLWRvZ3MtYWRvcHRlZC10cnVlLW1pcmFjbGUvc3Rvcnk_aWQ9MTA1OTE2MzU0?oc=5
Title: Animal shelter celebrates all their dogs getting adopted: 'A true miracle!' - ABC News
Text: A Pennsylvania animal shelter is celebrating after all their dogs were adopted in time for Christmas.

The Adams County Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, located in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, recently shared in a Facebook post that this is the first time in nearly five decades that they've had all empty kennels ahead of the holiday.

The staff at Adams County SPCA in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania celebrated after all their dogs were adopted out ahead of Christmas this year. Adams County SPCA

"Today is a great day for the Adams County SPCA! Two weeks ago our kennels were almost filled, now we don't have any dogs in the building at all (we have 1 cat that came in as a stray a little bit ago)!!" the animal shelter wrote in a Dec. 22 post. "Our community stepped up once again! This is the first time in 47 YEARS that the Adams County SPCA is empty let alone at Christmas time, it is a true miracle!"

The Adams County SPCA told "Good Morning America" they typically have 25 dog kennels and space for 50 cats in their facility. They also said they are grateful for the support of their local community and plan on taking on more animals from other Pennsylvania shelters this week now that they have vacant spots available.

"To say that we are beyond excited is an understatement!" the nonprofit organization continued in their post. "The staff and volunteers have worked VERY hard to take care of the animals in our care and to make sure they got adopted to the right home!"

"We will be pulling animals from other shelters in PA next week in hopes of relieving some of their stress. Right now, we are going to enjoy this accomplishment!" they added.

In 2023, the Adams County SPCA said they've adopted out 598 animals and reunited 125 stray animals with their owners.
Fake_probability: 0.0001599134411662817
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiTWh0dHBzOi8vd3d3LmNicC5nb3YvYm9yZGVyLXNlY3VyaXR5L3Byb3RlY3RpbmctYWdyaWN1bHR1cmUvYWdyaWN1bHR1cmUtY2FuaW5l0gEA?oc=5
Title: Agriculture Canine | U.S - Customs and Border Protection
Text: Dogs have a long history of working in partnership with humans. Building on this partnership between humans and dogs, U.S. Customs & Border Protection (CBP) detector dogs are a key tool for screening passengers and cargo to prevent the introduction of harmful plant pests and foreign animal disease from entering the U.S.

The ability to discriminate and target a specific odor, such as that of an orange or even a live snail, makes dogs an invaluable tool in detecting prohibited agricultural items hidden from view. When it comes to finding prohibited fruit, vegetables, plants, and meat products from high-risk countries, the nose knows. A trained agriculture dog can scan a piece of luggage for smuggled or forgotten fruits in mere seconds. Understandably, it takes an officer much longer to open and visually inspect the same bag.

In 1984, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) established its detector dog program Beagle Brigade” at the Los Angeles Inter-national Airport with one beagle trained to sniff out plants and animal products in luggage and carry-on items arriving on international flights. Beagles and beagle mixes are the preferred breed of dog at the airport because of their keen sense of smell, non-threatening size, high food drive, and gentle disposition with the public.

In 2000, USDA started using larger dogs outside the passenger environment by employing Labrador retrievers (labs), this launched the “Border Brigade” on the Mexican and Canadian borders, and “Cargo Brigade” in the CBP cargo inspection facilities at airports and seaports. In 2003, when USDA transferred agricultural inspectors to CBP, approximately 75 canine teams were included. Today, the agriculture canine program is growing to over 180 teams, providing screening at the border crossings, preclearance locations, air passenger terminals, cruise terminals, cargo warehouses, and mail facilities that process international passengers and commodities. All the detector dogs at the USDA National Detector Dog Training Center (NDDTC) are adopted from rescue shelters in the U.S. or come to the program from private donations. A facility was constructed in 2009 specifically for NDDTC near Atlanta, Georgia. The facility incorporates environmentally conscious features in accordance with the Leadership in Energy Environmental Design certification by the U.S. Green Building Council.

Before the selected beagles or labs can start their specialized work, they have to be trained. All CBP agriculture canine officers and their canine partners complete the initial 10-13 week CBP Agriculture Specialist Canine Training at the NDDTC. Training and evaluation continues at the team’s home port to maintain their skills. Depending on the working environment, the dogs are trained to give either a passive/sitting response or an active response by pawing to indicate the presence of an agricultural product. Regardless of the behavioral response, food (dog treats) and positive praise from their handler is the reward that increases their proficiency.

In addition to their important detection work, agriculture canine teams make the public aware of the important role that agriculture plays in CBP’s overall mission and in the U.S. economy. The special role of the agriculture detector dog program in protecting American agriculture and its public appeal make it ideal for public outreach activities. Agriculture canine teams have given thousands of demonstrations to audiences of all ages. At schools, media interviews, fairs or other events, the agriculture detector dog teams are always ready to steal the show, greeting the public with happy faces and wagging tails.
Fake_probability: 0.9997915625572205
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiPWh0dHBzOi8vd3d3LmFwcy5vcmcvcHVibGljYXRpb25zL2Fwc25ld3MvMjAyMzEwL2RvZ3MtY2F0cy5jZm3SAQA?oc=5
Title: The Surprising Physics of How Dogs and Cats Drink Water - aps.org
Text: Yes, they lap. But what does that mean?

By Taryn MacKinney | August 24, 2023

The backwards “ladle” of a dog’s tongue looks like it scoops water. It doesn’t.



My dog, Lacey, is a messy drinker. Each time she laps, she shoots water out each side of her mouth, leaving puddles on the floor. The only evidence I have that some water makes it down her gullet is that she hasn’t died.

Lacey’s problem stems from a system bug shared by all canines. Dogs lack complete cheeks, that all-important feature that lets many animals, like horses and humans, close their mouths most of the way, creating a seal to suck up water. You can turn your mouth into a straw; dogs cannot.

Evolutionarily, going mostly cheekless makes sense for dogs, cats, and other predators. Without excess skin, they can bite and hold prey with more force, using even their back teeth. So, our carnivorous pets must lap instead of suck — but what that actually means was a mystery until a little over a decade ago.

It wasn’t sloppy dogs that first caught scientists’ eye — it was clean, posh cats. In 2010, researchers from MIT, Virginia Tech, and Princeton made an unusual discovery. Rather than using its tongue like a spoon to scoop water into its mouth, a cat flicks its tongue against the surface of the water and then yanks it back, dragging up a column of water with it. The cat closes its mouth around the top of the column, nipping off a little water, which the back of the cat’s tongue shuffles along grooves on the top of the mouth. As the front of the tongue keeps lapping, those grooves act like a conveyor belt, pushing the water toward the throat.

“The main feature they use during this lapping behavior is high acceleration,” says physicist Sunghwan Jung, an author on the 2010 study who is now at Cornell University. “So their acceleration should of course be more than G, gravity, to withdraw the water.”

In other words, a cat “exploits fluid inertia to defeat gravity” — so gushes the 2010 paper.

But the team still thought dogs scooped water. After all, a dog’s tongue curls backward into a ladle shape as it laps, and in slow-motion videos, you can spot liquid in the cup of the tongue. Case closed!

Until the next year, when Harvard researchers X-rayed dogs drinking and realized that they were doing what cats did — albeit in a messier way. “We conclude that cats and dogs share the same basic mechanism,” they wrote. “Liquid adheres to the dorsal surface of the backwardly curled tongue tip.”

What about the water the dog scoops into its backwards ladle? That water ends up underneath the dog’s tongue — a problem for pooches, since water must be above the tongue to be swallowed. “For humans, if you have water underneath your tongue, you can close your mouth and just push the water above your tongue,” Jung says. Not so for cheekless dogs — that water simply dribbles out.

So why do dogs bother to curl their tongues at all? In 2015, researchers at Purdue University and Virginia Tech, including Jung, took a closer look. They filmed 19 dogs drinking, from a Yorkshire Terrier mix to a Great Dane, and modeled their drinking using rounded glass rods.
Fake_probability: 0.9999042749404907
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiaWh0dHBzOi8vd3d3LmNubi5jb20vMjAyMy8xMS8yOC91cy9teXN0ZXJpb3VzLXJlc3BpcmF0b3J5LWlsbG5lc3MtZG9ncy1yZXBvcnRlZC1pbi1kb3plbi1zdGF0ZXMvaW5kZXguaHRtbNIBYmh0dHBzOi8vYW1wLmNubi5jb20vY25uLzIwMjMvMTEvMjgvdXMvbXlzdGVyaW91cy1yZXNwaXJhdG9yeS1pbGxuZXNzLWRvZ3MtcmVwb3J0ZWQtaW4tZG96ZW4tc3RhdGVz?oc=5
Title: Signs of mysterious respiratory illness affecting dogs reported in at least a dozen states - CNN
Text: CNN —

An infectious respiratory disease among dogs that continues to baffle veterinarians has now been reported in at least a dozen US states, from Washington, Oregon and California to New Hampshire, Florida and Pennsylvania.

David B. Needle, a pathologist at the New Hampshire Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory and clinical associate professor at the University of New Hampshire, and a team of researchers have been unable to identify it as any known canine respiratory disease.

“This early metagenomic work did not reveal any RNA or DNA virus of concern, and no typical fungal or bacterial respiratory pathogens were identified,” the researchers wrote.

Since the middle of August, the American Veterinary Medical Association said vets in Oregon have reported over 200 cases.

The mysterious illness was described as an “atypical canine infectious respiratory disease,” by the Oregon Department of Agriculture and symptoms include coughing, sneezing, eye or nose discharge and lethargy.

Melissa Justice, a veterinarian at the Indiana State Board of Animal Health, told CNN most of the cases reported to her agency appear to be similar to kennel cough, but it doesn’t respond to normal medication and the cough lasts longer than the normal seven to 10 days.

“Affected dogs may begin to show signs of lethargy, fever, decreased appetite, productive cough, nasal and / or ocular discharge, respiratory distress, or pneumonia,” Justice said.

The federal government is also getting involved. A spokesperson for the US Department of Agriculture Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service told CNN it is working with local agencies and diagnostic laboratories to identify the disease.

Where have cases been reported?

Pennsylvania may be the latest state to have dogs possibly coming down with the mystery illness.

John Donges of the School of Veterinary Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania told CNN, “We have only just received our first cases over the weekend.”

In Colorado, veterinarians are seeing a lot of cases in high-volume areas such as boarding facilities, doggie day cares and dog parks.

“Clinical findings and tests completed to date suggest that most dogs with the unusual syndrome have a virus that primarily targets the respiratory system, leading to secondary bacterial infection and pneumonia in affected dogs,” said an article published by the Colorado State University College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences.

“We have seen around 35 cases at my hospital alone, four of which have either passed away or been euthanized due to severity of the pneumonia. We are unsure at this time if this is viral or bacterial in origin,” Lindsey L. Ganzer, the CEO of North Springs Veterinary Referral Center in Colorado Springs, told CNN.

In Massachusetts, the Department of Agricultural Resources said it is working with neighboring states “to better understand the factors at play” and kennel operators should be requiring vaccination to prevent future outbreaks.

Veterinarians in California have seen the disease, too, with the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health’s Veterinary Public Health Program receiving 10 case reports from veterinarians since November 16.

In Washington, the state’s Animal Disease Diagnostic Laboratory has also reported an increase in sick dogs.

“There has been an uptick in the numbers of dogs with respiratory disease, (coughing, lethargy, fever) and the signs have been persisting longer than a few days,” Kevin Snekvik, the lab’s executive director and a professor at the Washington State University College of Veterinary Medicine, told CNN.

The Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management said because a common cause of the illness reported in other states hasn’t been determined, it is hard to say if the disease has reached the state, but acknowledged the department “is aware of a small number of dogs in the state that died or were euthanized after experiencing similar signs. Unfortunately, these dogs weren’t subjected to a postmortem examination, so the cause of their illness was not determined.”

Idaho State Veterinarian Scott Leibsle also said there was no way to be sure, but “since the recent media reports have come about, several vets in Idaho have reached out to ISDA (Idaho State Department of Agriculture) with reports that they had seen multiple cases of an aggressive respiratory disease that is minimally or non-responsive to treatment, over the course of the summer (June/July/Aug).” But those veterinarians said more recent cases of respiratory disease in dogs seem to be more routine, according to Leibsle.

Vermont State Veterinarian Kristin Haas said New England has been seeing cases of this since at least early summer 2022. Some cases have been fatal, while others have not gone beyond the equivalent of a “common cold” type illness, Haas said.

The University of Florida College of Veterinary Medicine recently wrote that the lack of a centralized reporting system for canine diseases means it’s not even possible to confirm a spike in a known disease like kennel cough or if there is a new emerging pathogen.

“At this time, we recommend being especially vigilant to identify and segregate dogs with respiratory signs,” the college said.

What can dog owners do?

Dog owners can help keep their pets healthy by making sure they’re up-to-date on all vaccines, such as those for canine influenza, Bordetella and parainfluenza, the Oregon Veterinary Medical Association said.

Other tips include:

• Reducing contact with large numbers of unknown dogs. Just like with other respiratory pathogens, the more contacts your dog has, the greater the risk of encountering a dog that’s infectious.

• Reducing contact with sick dogs. This can be harder to determine but if a dog looks sick (coughing, runny nose, runny eyes), keep your dog away from it.

• Keep sick dogs at home and seek veterinary care.

• Avoid communal water bowls shared by multiple dogs.
Fake_probability: 6.140253390185535e-05
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiPWh0dHBzOi8vd3d3LmNsaW1iaW5nLmNvbS9wZW9wbGUvd2h5LWNyYWctZG9ncy1hcmUtYS1iYWQtaWRlYS_SAQA?oc=5
Title: Why Crag Dogs Are a Bad Idea - Climbing - Climbing
Text: Heading out the door? Read this article on the new Outside+ app available now on iOS devices for members! Download the app.

Wesley, a mohawked Labrador-chow mix, chased my red Saturn station wagon as I drove down Buttermilk Road. It was winter 2010, and I was housesitting in Bishop, California, for Wesley’s owner, taking the 70-pound dog to the boulders and then “walking” him afterward—OK, redneck-running him. Being at the boulders with me four days a week helped Wesley stay fit and happy. Wagging his tail behind me, he’d spend his days doing dog things—sniffing, running around, sleeping. Nine years ago, the Buttermilk Boulders were empty, and it felt reasonable to have an off-leash dog. Today, with the crowds, it would be chaos.

Though friendly, Wesley liked to wrestle with other dogs. This created a few fiascos in the small canyon of the Happy Boulders, but it was less of an issue at the more-open Buttermilks where Wesley often joined a dog pack that dashed from one end of the boulder field to the other, chasing each other or tearing after rabbits, getting into dust-tornado-forming fights. At times, other dog owners complained about Wesley’s rowdiness, but I brushed off their criticism. Spot pooped just as much at the Tableland Boulders, and I’d seen Mr. Peanut Butter steal lunches and chew climber shoes below High Planes Drifter. How was Wesley any worse? Dogs, I thought at the time, belong at the rocks—even rowdy ones like Wesley.

I was in denial.

It’s easy to think that we can look after our pets’ needs at the cliff, but the reality is we can’t—the rugged, often-crowded venues make it nearly impossible. “That was the worst belay of my life!” Hayden Kennedy griped in 2009 after I lowered him off Omaha Beach, a 5.14a out the Madness Cave in the Motherlode, Red River Gorge. I couldn’t deny that I’d short-roped him three times, once for every time a pack of four unattended dogs ran around my feet. The owners had let their hounds play wildly, fighting at the crag base, making it hard to focus. I neglected to say anything, given that the owners were already the type of clueless/inconsiderate people who let their dogs cause chaos at the crags, so would probably have said something defensive like: “They only get aggressive around people wearing climbing shoes because of crag trauma as puppies”—or just get indignant. And I worried that by complaining I’d just come off as some animal-hating sociopath who strangled puppies and punched kittens.

The same winter that Wesley roamed the Buttermilks, Gus, a prize-winning show pug, followed dutifully behind Cedar Wright on the 25-minute hike out from the Monastery in Big Thompson Canyon, Colorado. Cedar fell into a bolting argument with his partner, and then looked behind him only to see that Gus had disappeared. Gus—all 15 pounds of him—spent a week in the Colorado alpine, eating berries and hiding from predators. He eventually found his way to a nearby porch, 15 miles from the Monastery, escaping the epic and bumping his Instagram account to 14.6k followers.

Earlier this winter, Gus, now a wizened old man of 14, came bouldering in Roy, New Mexico, with his “mom,” Nelly; my girlfriend; and me. I pulled on to Upper Mesteño Canyon’s Ergonomicon, pushing through the big opening moves to a pair of crimps at 15 feet. I stabbed for a sloping jug then fell, nearly landing on Gus, who sat cluelessly on the pad—our fault, really, since we’d forgotten to move him off what must have looked like a giant dog bed. While Gus avoided being smushed that day, dogs have been injured by falling boulderers. To rest between tries on Ergonomicon, I walked to another boulder. When I came back, another dog barked at me, baring his teeth as I approached my bag. He wanted to protect his owner.

* * *

The cat sunk its teeth into my hand, then extracted its bloody mouth and hissed. I held the cat while three other climbers restrained the dog that had been mauling it. We were at the Hueco Rock Ranch in 2007, and an itinerant dog had been chasing the barn cat, shaking it violently in its mouth. The other boulderers had pulled the dog away while I tried to save the cat. Scared about being attacked again, the cat bit me, leaving a deep puncture. Then it died in my arms. Without insurance, I worried that the wound would become infected, or that I’d wake up feverish in the night, desperate to lick milk out of bowl and eat mice. In the end, the wound healed, though I was unable to pinch for the next six days.

Frankie Von Quillsbury hangs near the Ruckman Cave, Rifle, CO. James Lucas

“Look, Pika loves you!” Julia MacKenzie said on the eight-hour drive from Santa Cruz to Bishop in 2006. She’d decided to bring her cat bouldering, and so I’d ended up sandwiched in the back of the Volvo next to the litterbox and cat bed. After Pika did her business, she’d jumped onto my lap, the smell of cat shit wafting through the car. There’s an obsession with bringing cats to the crag. They’ve been spotted on leash at Indian Creek where one owner exclaimed, “Why are all these dogs barking at my kitty?!” Another friend brought his kitty, Norman, to the Bishop Pass camp where he was doing trail work. Norman had spent around 50 days in Owens River Gorge, summited Thirteeners, and logged three seasons on the High Sierra’s backcountry trails. That day, passing hikers thought Norman was lost and brought him home with them. My friend got Norman back, but the idea of crag kitties seems ridiculous given how escape prone, small, and unfit for the outdoors domestic cats are. A 2013 study in Animal Cognition showed that cats recognize their owners when they call them but choose to ignore them. So science has shown that your pet will avoid you, and yet you still insist on bringing it climbing?

Another time, after a day of toproping on Freerider on El Capitan, I had my partner bail on the summit. She didn’t have “time” to help pull up the ropes because she had to head home and feed her cat—as if it couldn’t wait another 15 minutes—leaving me to the onerous task. As I tugged on 200 meters of heavy cord, I felt myself becoming impawsibly frustrated.

* * *

Pets also impact wildlife. In Yosemite, I’ve watched Kuna, a local’s dog, chase squirrels in Camp 4. Emiko, a sassy Shiba, has killed marmots. Other dogs chase cattle and deer. In Roy, after one pooch dug into my chalk bucket to eat $30 worth of Friction Labs, he excavated a huge hole under a boulder to lie in and digest his meal, creating an unsightly burrow.

It’s easy to point to animals’ impacts and why they should be left at home, but these reasons often fall on deaf ears: Owners love their pets. It’s not the end of the world if Barley runs around the corner at the VRG, eats human shit, and then gives you a big, sloppy kiss. He’s cute. But really, who wants to huff shit-breath while shoeing up for Fall of Man? Nina Williams brought her hedgehog out to Red Rock, Rifle, and other climbing areas when she first got the prickly creature. The tiny animal spent most of the day curled up inside Nina’s hat, hiding. Eventually, Nina started leaving Frankie Von Quillsbury at home. Even this minimum-impact animal required time and energy that Nina realized was better spent climbing. Plus, Frankie ultimately enjoyed being at home more. Though I’m not a pet owner myself, back in 2010 when I had Wesley I slowly began to shift my thinking.

After Wesley rolled in climber poop for the third time that season, I had to leave the boulders early to wash the dirty dog. Missing out on climbing stunk—literally. Why am I bringing an animal to the crag? I asked myself. What’s the point? While Wesley enjoyed being outside, his impact on myself, other climbers, and the boulders created serious concerns. Each small bit of impact had added up to a meowtain of problems for cats, dogs, and climbers at the rocks.

Also Read:
Fake_probability: 0.9999293088912964
---<end>---
URL: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMiX2h0dHBzOi8vd3d3LmNoZXZyb24uY29tL25ld3Nyb29tLzIwMjQvcTEvcm9ib3RpYy1kb2dzLWNhbi11bmxlYXNoLWEtbW9yZS1yZWxpYWJsZS1lbmVyZ3ktZnV0dXJl0gEA?oc=5
Title: robotic dogs can unleash a more reliable energy future - Chevron
Text: Trey Caylor hasn’t said whether he’s a cat or a dog person. But, at least on a professional level, it’s likely the latter, albeit with an important caveat.

The “canine” he’s fond of must perform the most important of tricks: helping increase the efficiency of Chevron’s oil and gas facilities.

As Chevron Technical Center’s robotics program manager, Caylor is working to prove the capabilities of a fleet of robotic pups are up to the task. He’s doing so through a strategic agreement with robot maker Boston Dynamics.
Fake_probability: 8.270817488664761e-05
---<end>---
---<end_of_end>---